Scientific Computing and Imaging Institute
The SCI Institute
About the Institute
Components of SCI
Transdisciplinary R&D
Large- Scale Systems
Fundamental Algorithms/Applied Math
Visualization
Computational X
Imaging
Cyberinfrastructure Professionals Co-Op
One-U Responsible AI Initiative
Center for High Performance Computing
News
News from the Institute
Newsletter
Faculty Honors
Best Paper Awards
Events
Events Calendar
Distinguished Seminars
SCI Technical Exchange (SCIX)
SCI 30th Anniversary
Centers, Labs and Research Groups
People
People
Alumni
Faculty Alumni
Postdoctoral Alumni
Graduate Alumni
Undergraduate Alumni
Employee Alumni
Publications
Software/Data
Opportunities
Contact
SCI IT Support
Powered by the University of Utah
Powered by
Search Campus
Scientific Computing and Imaging Institute
Learn More About the SCI Institute
Empowering our students and scholars to impact society through transformative multidisciplinary computing research
SCI researchers come from a range of backgrounds and are united by a passion for collaborative science and engineering.
Meet our faculty, staff, and students
News from the Institute
Price Engineering Researchers Among First Class of Genesis Mission Awardees
July 23, 2026 In November 2025, the U.S. Department of Energy announced the launch of its “Genesis Mission,” a national initiative that “unites…
Read More
Redtail, Utah’s AI Factory Supercomputer, Ranks Among Fastest and Greenest Systems in the World
July 22, 2026 The University of Utah returns to the global supercomputing rankings with Redtail, an AI factory designed to expand access to…
Read More
University of Utah Selected for Elite National Network of AI-driven “Cloud Laboratories”
July 22, 2026 The University of Utah has been selected by the U.S. National Science Foundation to build one of twenty Programmable Cloud…
Read More
Air pollution mixtures may pose hidden risks during pregnancy
July 16, 2026 Lisa Potter – research communications specialist, University of Utah Communications Pregnancy puts higher oxygen demands on the body, so expectant…
Read More
A Quantum Mechanics Approach to AI Can Improve Cancer Outcomes
June 22, 2026 By Mara Johnson-Groh, freelance science writer for American Institute of Physics Publishing’s Scilights, and Kelly Hermans, University of Utah Scientific…
Read More
SCI’s Martin Berzins Recognized Among Top Architects of Scientific Computing’s New Era
June 12, 2026 The inaugural SCW75 honors the infrastructure leaders, informatics specialists, and simulation experts shaping the future of scientific computing [caption id=”attachment_2567″…
Read More
SCI’s Andrew McNutt Receives EuroVis Early Career Award
June 10, 2026 Adapted from the European Association for Computer Graphics announcement The European Association for Computer Graphics this week named University of…
Read More
What AI Costs the Planet and How Higher Ed Can Help
June 8, 2026 Behind every AI prompt is a chain of physical infrastructure—from data centers and power grids to cooling systems, mined minerals,…
Read More
Xinnor and the University of Utah’s SCI Institute Replace Aging PostgreSQL Backend with xiRAID
May 21, 2026 Xinnor, developer of the data protection solution xiRAID, announced the successful deployment of xiRAID at the Scientific Computing and Imaging…
Read More
Price Engineering Researchers Identify How Integrin Bond Stability Controls Cell Spreading and Structure
May 4, 2026 New research from the University of Utah John and Marcia Price College of Engineering identifies a key mechanism that determines…
Read More
Transformational Utah Investment in Artificial Intelligence and Computing to Advance Health and Discovery
May 1, 2026
Read More
SCI Affiliate Dan Reed Wins Computing Research Association Distinguished Service Award
April 21, 2026 Adapted from an article by the Computing Research Association. The Computing Research Association (CRA) Board of Directors recently selected Dan…
Read More
More News
What are the Components of SCI?
Translational Research and Development at SCI
Large-Scale Systems
Fundamental Algorithms/Applied Math
Visualization
Computational X
Imaging
One-U Responsible AI Initiative at SCI
A campus-wide, transdisciplinary effort to harness AI for societal good
Learn More
Center for High Performance Computing at SCI
Research computing and data support for the entire university
Learn More
Cyberinfrastructure Professionals Co-Op at SCI
The SCI CIP Co-Op is a voluntary community of research computing and data experts at SCI working together in supporting and sustaining SCI’s world-class research efforts
Learn More
~200
Faculty, Staff, and Students
~4000
Publications
47
Publication Awards
66
State and National Awards
~250,000
Software Downloads
Scientific Computing and Imaging Institute
72 So. Central Campus Drive Room 3750
SALT LAKE CITY, UT 84112
801-585-1867
© 2026 THE UNIVERSITY OF UTAH
Nondiscrimination & Accessibility
Disclaimer
Privacy
Media Contacts
