Utah NeuroRobotics Lab
Skip to content
Home
People
Research
Research
Technology
Publications
News
Media
Donate
Opportunities
Research Studies & Clinical Trials
Entrepreneur Incubator Program
Prospective Postdocs
Prospective PhD Students
Prospective Masters Students
Prospective Undergraduates
Prospective High-School Students
Trainee Projects
NeuroRobotics Course
Robotics Course
PM&R Ski Club
Welcome to the Utah NeuroRobotics Lab Directed by Prof. Jacob A. George .
Our research seeks to assist and rehabilitate individuals with life-altering neuromuscular impairments (e.g., stroke, spinal cord injury, limb loss). Our research links rehabilitation robotics and sensorimotor neural engineering through biologically-inspired artificial intelligence. We leverage wearable and implantable brain-machine interfaces to restore and/or enhance human function.
Most lab websites are notoriously outdated; but not this one! Our website is updated weekly. Visit our news feed to see our latest highlights. For specific information about our ongoing research efforts, please visit our research page.
We are an interdisciplinary lab that is joint between the College of Engineering and the School of Medicine . We are affiliated with the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering , the Department of Physical Medicine & Rehabilitation , the Department of Biomedical Engineering , the Department of Mechanical Engineering , the Center for Neural Interfaces , and the Utah Robotics Center . We have with students from a variety of different disciplines: electrical engineering, biomedical engineering, mechanical engineering, civil engineering, computer science, rehabilitation science, and neuroscience, just to name a few! Our diverse viewpoints drive innovation, and to this end, we value and respect individuals from all backgrounds.
If you are interested in volunteering in a research study to test out our cutting-edge technology, please visit our volunteer opportunities page.
If you are a student interested in joining our group, please visit our pages for undergraduate opportunities , masters opportunities and PhD opportunities !
Recent News
The Endless Frontier: Official Trailer and Poster Now Available
June 4, 2026 () The Endless Frontier premieres June 12th in Washington, D.C. at DC/DOX. The film is an intimate, urgent portrait of three scientists working to solve …
Congratulations to Dr. Michael Adkins, PhD
May 27, 2026 Please join us in congratulating the newest doctor in the group: Dr. Michael Adkins, PhD! Michael successfully defended his PhD today. Congratulations, Michael!
Fredi Mino Awarded IEEE RAS BioRobotics Travel Award
May 20, 2026 Congratulations to Fredi Mino on receiving a $1,500 travel award to the IEEE RAS BioRobotics Conference! This is a highly competitive award given to top …
New Publication in IEEE Haptics
May 20, 2026 Congratulations to lead author Abby Citterman and co-authors Rebecca Urban, Lily Nygard, Ada Stewart, and Mark Brinton on their recent publication in IEEE Haptics! This …
Contact
Director: Jacob A. George, Ph.D. ( jacob.george@utah.edu )
Office: Craig H. Neilsen Rehabilitation Hospital, 2125B
Lab: Craig H. Neilsen Rehabilitation Hospital, LL140
divi discount
&copy; 2026 Utah NeuroRobotics Lab | Disclaimer | Nondiscrimination Statement | Privacy
