KEVA — Smart Locks for Rental Properties | Apple Wallet & Google Wallet Access
Product ROI Calculator Contact Newsroom
Offline smart smart locks for rental properties
A simple lock-and-software solution to save time and money without the need for managed Wi-Fi.
Request my Demo
No more lock boxes. No more codes.
Finally discover the power of digital keys, all while saving time and money by managing access from a central location.
Save $1000+ /year
Reclaim 10+ hours/week
Get a Demo
Manage keys with AI-powered software
No need to manage Wi-Fi
No Wi-Fi required—our system works independently for seamless access.
Fully customizable
Tailor access permissions to your property's needs, from temporary guests to regular staff.
AI-powered
Seamlessly automate key delivery through your PMS, granting tenants access the moment they sign a lease.
The Future of Property Access, One Click Away
Our system integrates with existing RMS/PMS platforms, providing seamless access management from creation to analytics—all in one intuitive interface.
Learn More
Salt Lake City
Active Keys All Keys Expired Keys Generate Keys View
How KEVA Helps Property Managers
No more physical keys + No more lock boxes
Limit break ins by 30%
90% increase in tenant appeal
Learn More
Agentic workflows in the product
Ready to take your time back? KEVA is designed to automate tedious, multi-step workflows, turning complex tasks into simple, conversational exchanges.
Hi, I'm sorry to hear about the issue with your toilet. To better assist, could you please confirm your unit number and address so I can dispatch a maintenance technician?
Yes, send someone to come fix it. I am in apt. 34 A on Main St.
Thank you for the information. I will relay your maintenance request to the team. They should arrive within the next 4 hours. Is there a preferred time of day for the maintenance team to visit?
Check out the Demo
Why Choose KEVA
Smarter Access
Effortlessly manage all entry points with digital keys and secure single sign-on functionality .
Award-Winning Security
Trust in a platform approved and endorsed by Apple and Google , ensuring the highest level of data protection.
Operate 24/7
Never miss a request again. KEVA's AI Operator handles all time-sensitive needs and inquiries around the clock.
Quick Start Templates
Launch new workflows instantly using our library of customizable templates designed for peak efficiency.
Built for Teams
Empower your staff with robust tools for collaboration and shared success , centralizing communication and tasks.
Learn More
What Makes KEVA Different?
Take control of your properties with our comprehensive all in one solution. Easily monitor your access control.
Automate workflows with KEVA
Get a Demo
Compare our Innovations
Products:
Competitors
KEVA
Smart Digital Locks w/ Keyless Entry
Limited
Unlimited
Automated Showings
Unlimited
Unlimited
ID Verification/Fraud Prevention
Limited
Unlimited
Maintenance Ticket - Key Generation
Tenant Communication + Messaging
Limited
Unlimited
Integrations with PMS
Analytics Dashboard
Certified Security
Functional without WIFI / Cellular
Frequently Asked Questions
How do I remove a digital key from a resident who has moved out?
What happens if my smart lock battery dies or loses power?
Does KEVA integrate with my current property management software?
What security protocols are in place for the mobile app?
Need Help?
We're here to help! Feel free to reach out to our team if you couldn't find your answer.
Book a Demo
Show Units Without Showing Up
Let prospects self-tour vacant units while you focus on running your business. KEVA automates the entire process — from scheduling to access control.
Request my Demo
Step 1 – Invite Prospect
Send a secure showing invite to any prospect — no app download needed.
Step 2 – ID Verification & Scheduling
We verify their ID, schedule the tour, and prep the unit access — fully automated.
Step 3 – Self-Tour With Digital Key
The prospect receives a one-time digital key and can tour the unit — without a PM onsite.
Step 4 – Collecting Feedback & AI Analysis
We use AI to analyze market data and tenant feedback, providing insights on renovations, amenities, and pricing to help you lease units faster.
How it all works
KEVA uses a simple interface that has end-to-end encryption from the creation of a key to the end user.
Get a Demo
Create a Key
Easily generate personalized, secure digital keys for your tenants, guests, vendors, or staff with just a few clicks.
Send an Email
Instantly send digital keys via email, providing immediate access to your property with no need for physical keys.
Download key to digital wallet
Allow tenants or users to save their digital key directly to their smartphone's digital wallet for quick and secure access anytime.
Seamlessly manage access
Effortlessly control and monitor access to your property, adjusting permissions or revoking keys in real-time, all from a centralized platform.
Join the Waitlist
I want to work with KEVA prior to launch. Please prioritize my waitlist registration so that we can begin as soon as possible.
Join Now
Sign up to our newsletter!
Stay in the loop with the latest updates, innovations, and real world stories by signing up for our newsletter.
Subscribe
Opt out anytime by using your account dashboard
Wi-Fi-less smart locks for property management firms
OVERVIEW
Products Services Accounts Secured Data
SOLUTIONS
Case Studies Testimonials Fraud Prevention Feedback
RESOURCES
Blog Community Tutorials Contact Us
COMPANY
About Us Team Careers
© 2025 KEVA. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy Terms & Conditions
