About – Space Dynamics Laboratory
Skip to Main Content Space Dynamics Laboratory, Utah State University Space Dynamics Laboratory, Utah State University show previous item Company About SDL
Leadership
SDL as a UARC
Outreach
Suppliers, Quality & Contracts
Visitor Information
History
Capabilities Capability Overview
Satellites
Sensors & Instruments
Ground & Data
Autonomous Systems
Facilities
Careers Jobs
Benefits
Culture
Internships
USU Students
Where We Work
Media & Events News
Media Kit
Conferences & Events
Media Library
Contact
show previous item
Who We Are
A mission-focused University Affiliated Research Center (UARC), sponsored by the US Space Force (USSF) through the Office of the Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Space Acquisition and Integration (SAF/SQ).
Delivering Mission Success Since 1959
We advance technologies that address shared national priorities across defense, intelligence, civil, and scientific missions. Our diverse and talented workforce includes over 1,300 engineers, scientists, and business professionals. In addition to our headquarters in North Logan, UT, we also have offices strategically co-located with or situated near our key Government partners. Our stellar reputation is built on over six decades of mission success, from concept to completion.
Explore Our History
Our UARC Status
In 1996, the Office of the Under Secretary of War for Research and Engineering designated SDL as one of the six original UARCs.
Discover how our UARC status continues to guide our mission today.
Learn More
What Defines Us
Mission Focused
We deliver mission success to strengthen national defense and
enable scientific discovery.
Customer Driven
We are dedicated to meeting customer needs and fostering long-term
partnerships.
Technology enabled
We strategically develop and implement technology to deliver
high-quality solutions.
Locations
Our strategic locations ensure we provide timely, day-to-day mission expertise and support to our customers nationwide.
Headquarters in North Logan, UT
SDL’s headquarters include over 540,000 square feet of state-of-the-art facilities that directly support Government missions.
Field Offices
Albuquerque, NM
Chantilly, VA
Colorado Springs, CO
Huntsville, AL
Ogden, UT
Stafford, VA
Embedded Customer Support Locations
Los Angeles, CA
Washington, DC
Let's collaborate.
Contact Us
Privacy Terms Wireless Policy AS9100D
© 2026 Utah State University Space
Dynamics Laboratory
416 East Innovation Avenue, North Logan, UT 84341 435-713-3400 info@sdl.usu.edu
LinkedIn Instagram Facebook
