SafeUT | 24/7 Crisis Support for Utah Students
Skip to main content
Main navigation
Students
Parents
Schools
FAQ
Resources
Main navigation
Annual Report
Data Dashboard
Marketing and Outreach Requests
Menu
Real Help for Real Concerns
Whatever you’re going through, you don’t have to do it alone.
SafeUT counselors are here to talk about any sized problem, any time.
Chat with a licensed counselor now
Counselors are available 24/7 to talk you through whatever problem you're facing. Just tap the button to get started.
Start a Chat
Share a safety concern
If you're worried about someone's safety or that they might hurt someone else, you can submit a tip right now to get them the help they need.
Submit a Tip
What You Gotta Know About SafeUT
Confidential Help
The app is password-protected and what you share is confidential unless someone’s in danger.
Available at any time
Talk with a licensed counselor 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, 365 days a year.
Licensed counselors
Chats and tips are all handled by pros—licensed counselors employed by Huntsman Mental Health Institute at University of Utah Health.
Always free
Using the SafeUT website or app to chat with a licensed counselor will never cost you money.
For crises big or small
Whatever you’re dealing with, SafeUT counselors are here to help. Don’t hesitate to reach out.
Submit safety tips
If you’re worried a friend is being hurt or might hurt someone else, SafeUT will help you tell a trusted adult.
How SafeUT has helped students like you
January 1, 2016-June 30, 2025
They tried SafeUT, and
this is what happened
"It’s such an awesome tool to have for free at my fingertips. I was skeptical if [SafeUT] was even made for the type of issue I had; turns out the counselors want to help you with whatever you need."
— SafeUT User
"Late at night, when my son tearfully mentioned he had been bullied the whole school year and hadn’t told us, I remembered the SafeUT app. Download was easy. Reporting the incident went smoothly. And even though it was late, we heard back within 15 minutes. The next morning we were contacted by the school. The bully was dealt with immediately! Thank you for making this report easy, and your commitment to helping!"
— SafeUT User
Wonder what happens when you use SafeUT?
We got you.
Instant Counselor Access
Connecting with a SafeUT counselor is as easy as opening the app and tapping "Start a Chat," "Submit a Tip," or  "Start a Call."
Chat on Desktop
If you can't use your phone or don't have a smartphone, you can connect to SafeUT counselors by using the "Start a Chat," "Submit a Tip," or "Get Help Now" buttons on this page.
Quick Response
A real person will respond within a few minutes to share their expertise as a professional, licensed mental health expert.
Support and Solutions
SafeUT will keep what you shared confidential unless there's a concern about your safety or others’. SafeUT counselors may take action by contacting relevant authorities, such as your school or emergency services. They can also work with you to navigate tough situations, empowering you to share your thoughts and feelings with your parents or a trusted adult in your life.
Confidential and Caring
SafeUT counselors will keep what you shared confidential unless they feel someone’s life is in danger.
Saying something could save someone. Here's how to let SafeUT know in just 4 steps.
School safety takes all of us. Join us in protecting Utah's students from school threats. If you're worried about someone or something, don't stay silent. Sharing a tip to SafeUT counselors is quick, confidential, and can help keep your school safe.
","nextArrow":" ","appendArrows":".coh-slider-nav-inner-top","dots":true,"appendDots":".coh-slider-nav-bottom","draggable":true,"swipe":true,"fade":false,"vertical":false,"infinite":true,"speed":700,"cssEase":"ease","pauseOnHover":false,"pauseOnDotsHover":false,"autoplay":false,"rows":0}}, "rows" : 0, "slide" : ".coh-slider-item", "slidesPerRow" : 0, "touchMove" : true, "touchThreshold" : 5, "useCSS" : true, "useTransform" : true, "centerPadding":"0px", "infinite" : false }'>
Submit a Tip
How has SafeUT helped schools in the last year?
What kinds of things can I talk to a SafeUT counselor about?
Whatever you’re struggling with, we’re here to help. You don’t have to worry about whether your problem feels "big enough" to bring up. Part of our job is helping keep small problems from becoming big problems. Below are some real examples of things people have chatted with SafeUT counselors about.
I’m worried about my friend.
I’m having thoughts of self-harm.
My friend is suicidal.
I feel bad.
I don't know how to tell my parents.
School is hard.
Life is hard.
I'm struggling with depression.
I'm struggling with anxiety.
I'm having bad thoughts.
Someone at school is getting bullied.
Someone threatened to bring a weapon to school.
Frequently Asked Questions
Who’s responding to my messages on SafeUT?
SafeUT counselors are licensed with master’s degrees in mental health and employed by the Huntsman Mental Health Institute at University of Utah Health. They’re trained in supportive listening, collaborating to solve problems, intervening in crises, and preventing suicide and school safety threats.
Whether you start a chat or submit a tip, SafeUT counselors are ready to help 24/7, 365 days a year for free.
Is my SafeUT conversation confidential?
User privacy is one of SafeUT’s top priorities. All SafeUT users’ information is kept private and secure. You do not need to share your name or any personal information to start a chat or submit a tip with SafeUT.
When you start a chat or submit a tip, we first ask you to select your school from our list of participating schools. This helps SafeUT counselors know who to contact if there are safety concerns that require us to act.
SafeUT, SafeUT Frontline, and SafeUT National Guard apps all have passwords to protect your privacy.
Have more questions about privacy? Check out our Terms of Use .
What does SafeUT do with my data?
User privacy is one of SafeUT’s top priorities. We will never share or sell your data to outside parties.
Have more questions about privacy? Check out our Terms of Use .
Can my parents, school, employer, or doctor see my conversations with SafeUT?
No. Your conversations with SafeUT, SafeUT Frontline, and SafeUT National Guard are confidential. We will never share or sell your information. If SafeUT counselors are concerned about your safety or others’, we may take action by contacting relevant authorities, such as your school or emergency services.   SafeUT counselors work with each child to navigate tough situations, empowering them to share their thoughts and feelings with their parents or a trusted adult. By working together, we can help make sure your child feels understood and supported.
What are tips, and how do they help keep people safe?
People submit private tips to SafeUT when they have a concern about the safety of someone else or their school. SafeUT regularly gets tips about bullying, concerns about someone who has thoughts of self-harm or thoughts of suicide, concerns about someone hurting others, or potential school safety threats.
When you submit a tip, a SafeUT counselor reviews the information. If more information is needed after you submit a tip, a SafeUT counselor may send you a message on SafeUT before passing the tip to the school.
Schools use the information SafeUT provides and may follow up with the tip if there’s a safety concern. For high-risk situations, police may need to get involved to keep schools safe.
The tip feature is not available on SafeUT Frontline and SafeUT National Guard.
Find out why thousands of
teens trust SafeUT
Your browser does not support HTML5 video.
SafeUT: How It Works
Get the SafeUT App—so you've got support whenever you need it.
The SafeUT app is free, confidential, and gives you a line to licensed mental health counselors in Utah who are ready to help 24 hours a day, 365 days a year.
Download to your device.
Apple
Google
Site Links
About
Blog
Careers
Digital Accessibility
Privacy Policy
Helpful Links
SafeUT Frontline
SafeUT National Guard
801-587-8852
For General Inquiries:
801-587-8852
safeut@hsc.utah.edu
Copyright © 2026 University of Utah Health
Close
Service line menu
Students
Parents
Schools
FAQ
Resources
Annual Report
Data Dashboard
Marketing and outreach requests
Search
