Home
ASPIRE
TARA
HiRes
Internal
Home
About
Telescope Array
What Are Cosmic Rays?
Detecting UHE Cosmic Rays
Fluorescence Detection
Surface Detection
News
Research
Publications
Journal Publications
Conference Proceedings
Theses
Posters and Presentations
Collaborators
Clear Sky Clocks
Cosmic Ray History
Intro to Cosmic Rays
Ultra-High Energy Cosmic Rays
Detection of UHECRs
History of the Air Fluorescence Technique
The Fly's Eye (1981-1993)
Contact
Press
Welcome!
The Telescope Array project is a collaboration between universities and institutions in the United States, Japan, Korea, Russia, and Belgium. The experiment is designed to observe air showers induced by cosmic rays with extremely high energy. It does this using a combination of ground array and air-fluorescence techniques. The array of scintillator surface detectors samples the footprint of the air shower when it reaches the Earth's surface, while the fluorescence telescopes measure the scintillation light generated as the shower passes through the gas of the atmosphere.
The Telescope Array observes cosmic rays with energies greater than 10 18 eV. The surface array samples events over 300 square miles of desert. It consists of more than 500 scintillator detectors, each 3 m 2 located on a 1.2 km (3/4 mile) square grid. In addition, there are three telescope stations on a 30 km triangle. They are instrumented with 12-14 telescopes each. The Telescope Array has been collecting data in the high desert in Millard County, Utah, USA since 2007.
We are currently adding a low energy extension to the Telescope Array which will enable us to study the changes in the energy spectrum and chemical composition over a broader energy range. TALE (the Telescope Array Low Energy extension) will allow the observation of cosmic rays with energies as low as 3x10 16 eV. This is accomplished by adding 10 new high elevation angle telescopes, viewing up to 72°, to one of the telescope stations and adding a graded infill array of scintillator surface detectors.
The higher observation angles are required to view the full development of the air showers since lower energy showers develop higher in the atmosphere. The more densely spaced surface array is necessary since the footprint of lower energy showers is smaller and they could be missed between the more broadly spaced detectors. Finally, the dense surface array must reach close to the telescope station with the high elevation telescopes since the low energy showers will produce less light and we will want to observe the showers with both sets of detectors.
For more information about TALE see the TALE Program Overview .
Telescope Array Detects Second-Highest Energy Cosmic Ray Ever
In 1991, the University of Utah Fly’s Eye experiment detected the highest-energy cosmic ray ever observed. Later dubbed the Oh-My-God particle, the cosmic ray’s energy shocked astrophysicists. Nothing in our galaxy had the power to produce it, and the particle had more energy than was theoretically possible for cosmic rays traveling to Earth from other galaxies. Simply put, the particle should not exist.
The Telescope Array has since observed more than 30 ultra-high-energy cosmic rays, though none approaching the Oh-My-God-level energy. No observations have yet revealed their origin or how they are able to travel to the Earth.
On May 27, 2021, the Telescope Array experiment detected the second-highest extreme-energy cosmic ray. At 2.4 x 10 20 eV, the energy of this single subatomic particle is equivalent to dropping a brick on your toe from waist height. Led by the University of Utah (the U) and the University of Tokyo, the Telescope Array consists of 507 surface detector stations arranged in a square grid that covers 700 km 2 (~270 miles 2 ) outside of Delta, Utah in the state’s West Desert. The event triggered 23 detectors at the north-west region of the Telescope Array, splashing across 48 km 2 (18.5 mi 2 ). Its arrival direction appeared to be from the Local Void, an empty area of space bordering the Milky Way galaxy.
The particles are so high energy, they shouldn’t be affected by galactic and extra-galactic magnetic fields. You should be able to point to where they come from in the sky. But in the case of the Oh-My-God particle and this new particle, you trace its trajectory to its source and there’s nothing high energy enough to have produced it. That’s the mystery of this—what the heck is going on?
—John Matthews, Telescope Array
In their observation that published on Nov. 24, 2023, in the journal Science, an international collaboration of researchers describe the ultra-high-energy cosmic ray, evaluate its characteristics, and conclude that the rare phenomena might follow particle physics unknown to science. The researchers named it the Amaterasu particle after the sun goddess in Japanese mythology. The Oh-My-God and the Amaterasu particles were detected using different observation techniques, confirming that while rare, these ultra-high energy events are real.
“These events seem like they're coming from completely different places in the sky. It’s not like there's one mysterious source. It could be defects in the structure of spacetime, colliding cosmic strings. I mean, I’m just spit-balling crazy ideas that people are coming up with because there's not a conventional explanation.”
—John Belz, Telescope Array
Natural particle accelerators
Cosmic rays are echoes of violent celestial events that have stripped matter to its subatomic structures and hurled it through the universe at nearly the speed of light. Essentially cosmic rays are charged particles with a wide range of energies consisting of positive protons, negative electrons, or entire atomic nuclei that travel through space and rain down onto Earth nearly constantly.
Cosmic rays hit Earth’s upper atmosphere and blast apart the nucleus of oxygen and nitrogen gas, generating many secondary particles. These travel a short distance in the atmosphere and repeat the process, building a shower of billions of secondary particles that scatter to the surface. The footprint of this secondary shower is massive and requires that detectors cover an area as large as the Telescope Array. The surface detectors utilize a suite of instrumentation that gives researchers information about each cosmic ray; the timing of the signal shows its trajectory and the amount of charged particles hitting each detector reveals the primary particle’s energy.
Because particles have a charge, their flight path resembles a ball in a pinball machine as they zigzag against the electromagnetic fields through the cosmic microwave background. It’s nearly impossible to trace the trajectory of most cosmic rays, which lie on the low- to middle-end of the energy spectrum. Even high-energy cosmic rays are distorted by the microwave background. Particles with Oh-My-God and Amaterasu energy blast through intergalactic space relatively unbent. Only the most powerful of celestial events can produce them.
“Things that people think of as energetic, like supernova, are nowhere near energetic enough for this. You need huge amounts of energy, really high magnetic fields to confine the particle while it gets accelerated.”
—John Matthews, Telescope Array
Ultra-high-energy cosmic rays must exceed 5 x 10 19 eV. This means that a single subatomic particle carries the same kinetic energy as a major league pitcher’s fast ball and has tens of millions of times more energy than any human-made particle accelerator can achieve. Astrophysicists calculated this theoretical limit, known as the Greisen–Zatsepin–Kuzmin (GZK) cutoff, as the maximum energy a proton can hold traveling over long distances before the effect of interactions of the microwave background radiation take their energy. Known source candidates, such as active galactic nuclei or black holes with accretion disks emitting particle jets, tend to be more than 160 million light years away from Earth. The new particle’s 2.4 x 10 20 eV and the Oh-My-God particle’s 3.2 x 10 20 eV easily surpass the cutoff.
Researchers also analyze cosmic ray composition for clues of its origins. A heavier particle, like iron nuclei, are heavier, have more charge and are more susceptible to bending in a magnetic field than a lighter particle made of protons from a hydrogen atom. The new particle is likely a proton. Particle physics dictates that a cosmic ray with energy beyond the GZK cutoff is too powerful for the microwave background to distort its path, but back tracing its trajectory points towards empty space.
“Maybe magnetic fields are stronger than we thought, but that disagrees with other observations that show they’re not strong enough to produce significant curvature at these ten-to-the-twentieth electron volt energies. It’s a real mystery.”
—John Belz, Telescope Array
Expanding the footprint
The Telescope Array is uniquely positioned to detect ultra-high-energy cosmic rays. It sits at about 1,200 m (4,000 ft), the elevation sweet-spot that allows secondary particles maximum development, but before they start to decay. Its location in Utah’s West Desert provides ideal atmospheric conditions in two ways: the dry air is crucial because humidity will absorb the ultraviolet light necessary for detection; and the region’s dark skies are essential, as light pollution will create too much noise and obscure the cosmic rays.
Astrophysicists are still baffled by the mysterious phenomena. The Telescope Array is in the middle of an expansion that that they hope will help crack the case. Once completed, 500 new scintillator detectors will expand the Telescope Array will sample cosmic ray-induced particle showers across 2,900 km 2 (1,100 mi 2 ), an area nearly the size of Rhode Island. The larger footprint will hopefully capture more events that will shed light on what’s going on.
Search Our Site
Cosmic Ray Comic Book
This free comic book is a fun introduction to cosmic rays.
Download
ASPIRE
The ASPIRE Lab is now one of the most innovative and interactive science education web sites available on the Internet. The powerful combination of inquiry-based content, along with interactive, hands-on labs provides a powerful visualization tool for you and your students to use. Best of all, the ASPIRE Lab is free!
Visit now!
&copy; Telescope Array Project at the University of Utah
