Education technology company Imagine Learning sold, will remain in Provo – Deseret News
Deseret News
Deseret Magazine
Church News
Deseret News
Deseret Magazine
Print Subscriptions
Newsletter Sign Up
Latest
Latest
Politics
Politics
Utah
Utah
Sports
Sports
Opinion
Opinion
Magazine
Magazine
More
More
Sign In Register
Sign In
Search
Go
Utah Business Education
Education technology company Imagine Learning sold, will remain in Provo
Published: April 22, 2014, 3:30 p.m. MDT
See More Deseret News Stories In Search
View Comments
Share
Imagine Learning, a Utah-based language and literacy company, announced it has been acquired by Weld North Holdings. Imagine Learning will remain in Provo, and there will be no immediate management changes, company officials said. www.imaginelearning.com
By Jasen Lee
Your browser does not support the audio element. NEW: Try Article Audio
NEW: Try Article Audio
Audio quality: |
00:00
00:00
1.0 x
00:00 / 00:00
-
0.5x 0.6x 0.7x 0.8x 0.9x 1.0x 1.1x 1.2x 1.3x 1.4x 1.5x 1.6x 1.7x 1.8x 1.9x 2.0x 2.1x 2.2x 2.3x 2.4x 2.5x 2.6x 2.7x 2.8x 2.9x 3.0x +
PROVO — An education technology firm founded in Utah has been purchased by a New York investment company.
Imagine Learning, a Provo-based language and literacy company, has been acquired by Weld North Holdings, company officials said. Terms of the agreement were not disclosed.
The company will remain in Provo, and there will be no immediate management changes, said Weld North CEO Jonathan Grayer.
Through its educational software platform, Imagine Learning provides language and literacy instruction to hundreds of thousands of students throughout the United States, company officials said. Used in 6,500 schools nationwide, as well as in nearly a dozen countries, the company serves English language learners, struggling readers and early childhood students.
The company’s software is used in schools across the state, including Stansbury Elementary in West Valley City.
Principal Ernie Broderick said the program has been invaluable in helping Stansbury's students — most of whom are not native English speakers — increase their educational achievement and improve their language proficiency.
“Many of our young students come in with English language deficits,” Broderick explained. “It’s a major barrier for education.”
Since installing the computer-based software curriculum into the students' lesson plans, the results have been dramatic, he said.
“It has just been a wonderful asset as these kids have developed their English language skills,” Broderick said. “We have basically cut in half the time the kids needed to become conversational.”
The program was originally designed to improve oral fluency, but it has also proved very useful for achieving higher comprehension levels for some of the core components of learning, he said.
“Even though it was designed to help them speak the language, it actually helps them read, write and understand the language better,” Broderick said.
For that reason, Stansbury Elementary uses the program even more extensively, he added.
Weld North has extensive educational expertise and a strong desire to further the mission of Imagine Learning, Grayer said.
“Imagine Learning’s unique game-based solution engages children, makes it fun for them to learn and supports teachers in their pursuit of teaching English language and literacy skills to their students,” he said.
Over the past decade, Imagine Learning grew from a fledgling startup — led by founder and former CEO Susan Preator — to a flourishing multimillion-dollar company. The company grew from about $500,000 in revenue in 2004 to estimated revenues of nearly $50 million last year, Preator said.
Today, the company is in the process of expanding its workforce and recently secured an additional 26,000 square feet in office space at its current Utah County location.
Imagine Learning CEO Joe Swenson said the acquisition is evidence of the company's strong position in the digital education sector.
“Through dedication and hard work over the past 10 years, Imagine Learning has become one of the most recognized digital English language and literacy programs in the country for (kindergarten through sixth grade) students,” Swenson said.
View Comments
He said customers will continue to receive an excellent product and support.
“Imagine Learning will continue producing the best language and literacy program for elementary students available,” Preator said. “Our mission is to change lives and open doors of opportunity for children everywhere. That has always been — and will continue to be — our focus.”
Email: jlee@deseretnews.com
Twitter: JasenLee1
Join the Conversation
Looking for comments?
Find comments in their new home! Click the buttons at the top or within the article to view them — or use the button below for quick access.
VIEW COMMENTS
Most Popular
1 6 things overheard at this Latter-day Saint apologetics conference
2 Cosmo the Cougar flips his way into the Mascot Hall of Fame
3 Latter-day Saint women are happier than most. So why are more young women struggling?
4 Relief Society donates $65 million to fund aid for women and children in Africa, Asia
5 Where did this guy come from? Late addition to BYU football roster could make early impact in 2026
Most Commented
130 Trump signs executive order changing childhood vaccine recommendations
130 Shots in the dark: Why Americans can’t stop arguing about vaccines
97 Utah attorney general warns college sports bill could override state restrictions on transgender athletes
77 Who is Enes Kanter, the man jumping into the WNBA transgender debate?
46 Is a data center vibe shift upon us?
Company
About Us Editorial Staff Careers
Reach Out
Contact Us Technical Support Advertise Send Us a Tip Do Not Sell My Info
Get More
Newsletters Print Subscription Shop Merchandise Deseret News Marathon
Connect
X Facebook Instagram iOS App Android App
Copyright © 2026 Deseret News Publishing Company. All Rights Reserved
Terms of Use
Privacy Notice
CA Notice of Collection
Cookie Policy
Cookie Settings
