First Diamond Synthesis: 50 Years Later, a Murky Picture of Who Deserves Credit
Advertisement
Skip to main content
ACS
ACS Publications
C&EN
CAS
Jobs
Main menu
News
Topics
Newsletter
Podcasts
Explore
Explore
Skip
Explore section
Features
Perspectives
Interviews
ACS News
Graphics
Chempics
Games
Newscripts
Webinars
Whitepapers
& E-books
Highlights
Highlights
Skip
Highlights section
New Normal: Living at wildfires' edge
To the moon, Mars, and beyond
6 pivotal moments in 250 years of US chemistry
The road to sustainable rare earths runs through Brazil
C&EN's 2026 Talented Twelve
Introducing boron buckyballs
TOPICS
TOPICS
Skip TOPICS
section
Analytical Chemistry
Biological Chemistry
Business
Careers
Education
Energy
Environment
Food
Materials
People
Pharmaceuticals
Physical Chemistry
Policy
Research Integrity
Safety
Synthesis
MAGAZINE
MAGAZINE
Skip Magazine section
Volume 104 |
Issue 8
July 20, 2026
Previous
Issues
Search
Search C&EN
Search C&EN
Search
News
Topics
Newsletter
Podcasts
Starting July 24, 2026, C&EN Global Enterprise subscribers now have access to all of cen.acs.org . View past issues here .
Close
Trending: View all trending topics
Global Warming and Heatwaves
Environmental Deregulation
Scientific Integrity
Artificial Intelligence
Close
Log in or create an account
Access thousands of C&EN articles
Get personalized recommendations
Follow your preferred chemistry topics
Save your favorite articles
Log In
Don't have an account?
Create one
Or
Access Through Institution
First Diamond Synthesis: 50 Years Later, a Murky Picture of Who Deserves Credit
Share
Save
Synthesis
First Diamond Synthesis: 50 Years Later, a Murky Picture of Who Deserves Credit
by
William G. Schulz
February 2, 2004
5
min read
A version of this story appeared in
Volume 82, Issue
5
Share
Save
Save
COVER STORY
First Diamond Synthesis: 50 Years Later, A Murky Picture Of Who Deserves Credit
Heat Treatment And Chemical Additives Make More Mundane Stones Look Like Rare Gems
THE MANY FACETS OF MAN-MADE DIAMONDS
WHODUNIT
This year, on Dec. 16, it will be 50 years since the day chemist H. Tracy Hall claims to have achieved the first synthesis of diamond at the General Electric Research Laboratory in Schenectady, N.Y. His reproducible method, which included "seeding" with a catalyst the high-pressure cell in which the diamond was formed, quickly led to commercial production of diamonds.
Although he claims the credit for diamond synthesis at GE, Hall was not working alone. He was part of a research group formed in 1951--known as Project Superpressure--that included Robert Wentorf, Herbert M. Strong, and Francis P. Bundy. "In fact, Hall's breakthrough diamond-making run on Dec. 16 followed a very similar run by Strong a week before in which the GE team mistakenly thought they had made diamonds," says Robert M. Hazen, author of the 1999 book "The Diamond Makers."
TEAM PLAYERS
Members of GE's early 1950s Project Superpressure team: (from left) Bundy, Strong, Hall, Wentorf, Anthony Nerad, and J. E. Cheney. Nerad was the project manager, and Cheney was an assistant to Strong and Bundy.
Credit:
PHOTO COURTESY OF THE H. TRACY HALL FOUNDATION
"The GE team firmly believed that they had made diamonds on Dec. 8 to 9," Hazen says. "Most people at GE saw Hall's Dec. 16 run as confirmation, not the first synthesis. But Strong's 'first diamond' has turned out to be a natural chip, not synthetic. It was not until decades later, when I was working on the book and pushed for a spectroscopic analysis, that GE finally acknowledged that Tracy Hall was first [on Dec. 16] and not Herb Strong [on Dec. 9]."
When Hall received the Chemical Pioneer Award from the American Institute of Chemists in 1970, he wrote about his patented belt apparatus and his chemical insights about making synthetic diamond in an old GE hydraulic press. For about a year, he attempted many hundreds of indirect approaches, "but to no avail," he relates. "I was becoming discouraged. Then, one wintry morning, I broke open the sample cell ... My hands began to tremble; my heart beat rapidly; my knees weakened and no longer gave support. My eyes had caught the flashing light from dozens of tiny triangular faces of octahedral crystals ... and I knew that diamonds had finally been made by man" [ The Chemist , XLVII , 276 (1970)].
"The idea of using the iron catalyst [(FeS) and graphite at a pressure near 70,000 atm and a temperature near 1,600 °C] was the breakthrough," Hall says.
Just one year after his achievement, however, Hall left GE. His departure was not a happy one. He contends that GE improperly credited the Project Superpressure team for the first synthesis of man-made diamond.
Today, Hall lives in Provo, Utah. When he left GE in 1955, he became a professor of chemistry and director of research at Brigham Young University. He invented successors to the belt apparatus press he developed for GE that are used in diamond synthesis today.
The website of the H. Tracy Hall Foundation notes that "GE management was anxious that the success be depicted as a team effort for a couple of reasons. First, obviously the contributions of the team were critical, and it's not likely that any man alone would have been able to finance and complete the project before the many others who were working on it.
"GE had a great deal of money tied up in equipment and scientists and was not willing to dismiss all that lightly," the website continues. "Of equal importance is the fact that GE wanted to convey the message that this was not something just anybody could whip up in their garage. Had the world known that the achievement had been accomplished on a leaky antique press with the invention of a farm boy from Utah, GE would have faced much stiffer competition from the outset."
In his book, Hazen, a senior staff scientist at the Carnegie Institution of Washington, D.C., and a professor of earth science at nearby George Mason University, Fairfax, Virginia, writes that at GE "the extent to which ideas were developed collectively versus independently is unrecorded, but there was certainly a great deal of interaction" between staff scientists.
There's a darker note to this story, Hazen adds: "In Hall's view, the reason for his isolation boiled down to one simple fact: He was a Mormon, and that didn't sit well with the others. His social life revolved around the church and his large family. Hall is convinced that he was the victim of religious discrimination. GE promotions and pay raises were based in part on peer review; Hall believes that he was penalized for spending too much time with his church. And he remembers the jokes--vicious, distasteful jokes about Mormons and polygamy."
"I thought long and hard about the credit issue, and I tried to paint a pretty balanced picture in the book," Hazen tells C&EN. "Hall, for example, mentioned the Mormon angle briefly in many hours of conversations, and he was certainly bitter about that and other aspects. But the other three main players deny any prejudice, and they suggest that Hall was rather aloof and secretive at times. In short, it's a complicated story of who deserves credit, and I don't think there's any simple answer."
Advertisement
Send the reporter feedback
Submit a Letter to the Editor for publication
Chemical & Engineering News
ISSN 0009-2347
Copyright ©
2026 American Chemical Society
Enjoyed the article?
Share
First Diamond Synthesis: 50 Years Later, a Murky Picture of Who Deserves Credit
cen.acs.org
Advertisement
More in
Synthesis
Editor's Picks
Popular
Return to top
2/3
FREE ARTICLES LEFT THIS MONTH
Chemistry matters. Join us to get the news you need.
Get More
Get More
Close
C&EN's Elements Newsletter
Stay on top of the chemistry world with your editor-curated roundup of C&EN stories
Email Address
Subscribe
Privacy Policy
Chemistry News That Matters
C&EN empowers those in and around the global chemical enterprise
Upgrade
Subscribe to C&EN
Debug leftColumns:
leftColumns exists: no
The Edge in Chemistry News
About C&EN
Contact
Advertise
ACS Brandlab
ACS Publications
ACS Chemistry Careers
Join ACS
Renew Membership
ACS Network
CAS
C&EN Mobile App
Follow C&EN
Help
Accessibility Statement
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use
Site Map
Manage Cookies
Copyright ©
2026 American Chemical Society. All
Rights Reserved.
Share This Article
Close
Copy Link
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Bluesky
Reddit
Wechat
Email
Print
Share "" via email
Close
Send Email to*
To send an email to multiple recipients, separate email addresses with a comma,
semicolon, or both.
Your Name*
Your Email Address*
Add a Note
Optional personal message to include with the shared article.
Send Email
Sending...
Chemical & Engineering News will not share your email address with any other person or company.
Email Sent Successfully
Close
Your email has been sent to
Article:
