Who We Are | Best Friends Animal Society - Save Them All
Skip to main content
Tertiary Menu
Who We Are
Pet Memorials
Locations
Shop
En Español
Search Icon
Donations Menu
Donate
Monthly
In Memory
In Honor
Workplace
DAF
Header Menu
Saving Shelter Animals
The Sanctuary
How You Can Help
Stories
Adopt
Ways to Give
|
The Best Friends story
Back in 1984, a scrappy group of friends from far corners of the globe settled in a remote area of Utah’s high desert … and took the first steps to forever changing the future for pets in shelters.
It’s the story of Best Friends, but it’s much more than the history of a spot on the map. This group of ordinary but passionate people believed that every pet has a story, too — each one worth saving, each life individual and important. Today, four decades after they broke ground for a sanctuary in a remote region of the Southwest, achieving no-kill across the entire country is within reach.
The story of Best Friends
We started with little fanfare
And even fewer resources. We were creating a sanctuary for homeless animals literally from the ground up. We were forging roadways and erecting buildings with our bare hands. We were creating a better world through kindness to animals.
We did it with passion, believing that a humane path forward — one in which every pet has the chance to know love and companionship — was the only path forward.
There was no how-to manual for realizing such a vision, but we soon found we didn’t need one. We emphasized positive change and what we could accomplish together, never guilt or shock to force people into joining us.
Even in those early days, each discrete act of lifesaving counted, no matter how small or unseen. Because we weren’t just building a sanctuary. We were laying the groundwork for changing how this country looks at — and looks out for — its homeless dogs and cats. We were shaping the way we care for our most beloved companions. When money was tight, we shared whatever we had — and the more we shared, the more we were given to share.
What began as a few makeshift structures in the middle of nowhere grew into a movement — to bring about a time when there are No More Homeless Pets
The Sanctuary remains our anchor
But, even today, it still comes down to small, simple acts of kindness — and the belief that every animal deserves a chance.
As we’ve grown, our national network partners and pet lifesaving centers have become hubs for innovation and inspiration. We’re bringing tangible lifesaving tactics to shelters and rescue groups across the U.S, touching every community in the country.
We absolutely love animals — and we think humans are pretty swell, too
That’s why we’ve got people around the country working to make the world a kinder and more compassionate place.
Working together, we’re building on this foundation of compassion and inclusion to help both pets and people. We’re making sure that everyone has the same access to loving pets and that every adoptable pet has access to the comfort of a foster home instead of a kennel in a shelter.
We’re committed to creating communities, including our own workplace, in which everyone is valued and respected. Even if your cat ears stay on for video calls. OK, especially if your cat ears stay on for video calls.
Meet Our Founders
Meet Our Founders
Meet Our Leadership
Meet Our Leadership
Best Friends is proud to be one of the 2022 Top Workplaces!
We’re so honored to be recognized for our innovative work to make the entire country no-kill.
See Our Recognitions
Transparency, accountability, and trust
Best Friends Animal Society is committed to you, the people who make our work possible.
At Best Friends, we aim for transparency and authenticity — two of our guiding principles — in every aspect of the work we do. And because we not only depend on but trust our family of supporters, we are committed to open, two-way communication and financial transparency across the organization.
Read our most recent financial reports
Do we sound like your cup of kibble?
Come work with us, help make a difference, and have some fun while you’re at it.
Work for Best Friends
Our partners
Individually, we can save a few. But working together with you, and our foundation, corporate, and network partners, we can Save Them All.
Corporate partners
Our corporate partners are committed to mobilizing their audiences and raising funds to help save lives around the country.
Meet our corporate partners
Foundation partners
Thanks to the support of our foundation partners, we’re creating successful, sustainable, community-focused programs.
Meet our foundation partners
Celebrity supporters
With their vast audience, our celebrity supporters inspire advocacy and help spread the no-kill message far and wide.
Meet our celebrity supporters
Network partners
At the heart of our collaborative spirit is the Best Friends Network, our partner shelters and rescue groups across the U.S.
Meet our network partners
Working together to save lives
Best Friends has always believed that collaboration is the key to saving more lives. No one rescue group or shelter can create a no-kill city, and that’s why we work with more than 6,000 shelters and rescue groups throughout the U.S.
Best Friends Network Partners are made up of thousands of public and private animal shelters, rescue groups, spay/neuter organizations, and other animal welfare groups, all working to save the lives of dogs and cats in your community and across the country.
Each and every one of our network partners needs caring people like you to adopt, foster, donate, volunteer, and advocate to help save the lives of pets where you live.
Find a network partner near you today:
Distance
Distance <=
Units: Miles
Origin
Address, City, Zip-Code, Country, ...
And/Or Search by Name
Type
All Partners
Network
NKLA
NKUT
NWA PAW
Search Partners
Por favor, ten en cuenta que cuando estas siendo dirigido al sitio web de un socio de Best Friends, este sitio puede estar sólo en inglés o la traducción puede no ser 100% correcta. Si tienes alguna pregunta, ponte en contacto directamente con el socio o envíenos un mensaje a
informacion@bestfriends.org
y un miembro de nuestro equipo se pondrá en contacto contigo lo antes posible.
Contact us
Best Friends Animal Sanctuary
5001 Angel Canyon Rd
Kanab, UT 84741
435-688-2327
Tax ID: 23-7147797
For additional contact information
Together, we can Save Them All.
Best Friends, a 501(c)(3) nonprofit organization (tax ID# 23-7147797), operates the nation’s largest sanctuary for homeless animals and provides adoption, spay/neuter, and educational programs.
Save Them All
Stay in touch with the animals via email updates, as they get second chances at happy homes.
Bring Love Home Subscription
Subscribe
Social Menu
Best Friends Animal Society Facebook Page
Best Friends Animal Society Instagram Page
Best Friends Animal Society Pinterest Page
Best Friends Animal Society LinkedIn Page
Best Friends Animal Society Threads Page
Best Friends Animal Society YouTube Channel
Best Friends Animal Society TikTok Page
Best Friends Animal Society Twitch Channel
Best Friends Animal Society Discord
Sections
Saving Shelter Animals
The Sanctuary
Act for Animals
Stories
Adopt
Ways to Give
Who We Are
Pet Care
Locations
Shop
En Español
How You Can Help
Adopt
Donate
Foster
Learn with Best Friends
Pet Memorials
Take Action
Volunteer
Work at Best Friends
Programs
Houston
Los Angeles
New York City
Northwest Arkansas
Salt Lake City
Mobile Apps
Best Friends Animal Sanctuary App
Experience the magic of the Sanctuary during your visit to Kanab, Utah or from your couch.
Other Best Friends Sites
Best Friends Roadhouse and Mercantile
Best Friends Store
Network Partners
Strut Your Mutt
About
Careers
Internships
For the Media
FAQs
Position Statements
Financial Information
In the Spotlight
As seen on National Geographic’s DogTown and the CW's Dog Town USA. And the inspiration behind the critically acclaimed film, The Champions .
We're proud to be one of the 2024 Top Workplaces, and honored to be recognized for our innovative work to take the entire country no-kill.
Image
Image
Image
Image
Image
Image
Legal Menu
Contact Us
Data Sharing Request
Privacy Policy
Terms & Conditions
© 2026 Best Friends Animal Society. All Rights Reserved.
