Our History – YESCO
Our Services
Custom Signs
Signs
Gallery
Concept to Completion
Request Sign Proposal
Contact Us Request a Custom Sign Quote
Contact Us
Service
Sign & Lighting Service
Sign Repair
National Service
Service Agreement
Energy Efficient Lighting
Sign Patrol
Improvements
Request Repair
Contact Us Request a Sign & Lighting Repair
Contact Us
Billboards
Billboards
Billboard Locations
Reserve Online
Request Billboard Proposal
Design Tips
Why YESCO
Contacts
Contact Us Request a Billboard Proposal
Contact Us
Printed Signs (Browse Products)
Own a Franchise
Financing
Financing Options
Electronic Displays
Architectural Solutions
Careers
Apply Now – Jobs
Learn More
Contact
Locations
Request Billboard Proposal
Request Repair
Request Sign Proposal
Ask a Question
About Us
Blog
Gallery
Our History
Industries
Casino & Resorts
Education
Healthcare
Hospitality
Property Management
Retail
Testimonials
FAQ
Our Mission
Our History
2026-04-16T14:34:53-06:00
YESCO History
Thomas Young's passion for light didn't just define his life—it became the driving force behind the successful business he founded. His profound fascination with this medium led to numerous contributions to the sign industry and countless advancements born from his remarkable foresight.
At just fifteen, Thomas Young emigrated with his family from England to Ogden, Utah. A hard-working, talented young man with a deep love for art, he quickly became a Master Sign Writer, mastering his craft. Driven by an incredible desire to excel, Tom constantly pushed forward. He expanded his skills from wall-lettering, gold-leaf window signs, posters, and truck lettering to eventually embrace the world of electric signs, always staying ahead of the curve.
First these were just incandescent light bulbs, then neon, the “new light,” always advancing to new heights and new and exciting media with which to build the finest signs in the country and eventually the world.
Early on, the acronym “YESCO” was adopted and over time it became synonymous with the full name, Young Electric Sign Company.
YESCO became recognized as a true leader in the sign industry. Unafraid of building the biggest and best sign on earth, YESCO literally put Las Vegas on the map, as far as signs are concerned. At least in part, YESCO has been responsible for turning towns into destinations for people from all over the world.
From the humble beginnings of Young Electric Sign Company on March 20, 1920 and into the 21st century, the growth of the company has been a fantastic story of the America Dream come true.
Our determination to progress through inventiveness, integrity and constant improvement are the defining traits of YESCO. Reflecting on the past we are ready to take on the challenges of tomorrow. Your contribution matters to us. Continued hard work and dedication will help us move YESCO to an even brighter future.
History Videos
The YESCO Story: A Century of Innovation
Thomas Young Sr: A Legacy in Every Light
History Part 1 – The Early Years
History Part 2 – Viva Las Vegas
History Part 3 – A New Era Begins
History Part 4 – The Next 100 Years
Timeline
1890's
1910's
1920s
1930's
1940's
1950's
1960's
1970's
1980's
1990's
2000's
2010's
2020's
Current
1890's
Thomas “Tom” Young was born on May 26, 1895 to George W. and Emily Tate Young in Sunderland, England.
George Young and his family converted to The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints in East Boldon, England.
1910's
Tom, age 15, sailed with his family from Liverpool, England to Montreal, Canada aboard the SS Dominion. They continued on to Ogden, Utah, by train.
Georges Claude exhibited the first neon sign in Paris, France.
Tom worked as a sign writer for the Electric Service Company and the Redfield-King Sign Company in Ogden.
Thomas Young was a talented fine artist in addition to his superb sign-writing and design skills. In this 1919 oil painting, Tom recreated some Scottish Highland landscapes he cherished.
Tom married Elmina Carlisle in Salt Lake City, Utah.
1920's
After borrowing $300 from his father, Tom founded the Thomas Young Sign Company on March 20, 1920. The company specialized in lighted signs, wall-painted advertisements, gold-leaf window lettering, and coffin plates.
This hand-gilded masterpiece announced Thomas Young: Sign Painter. It hung outside Tom’s first shop at 2450 Washington in Ogden.
Henry Schutte and Ben Jones joined Tom and his brothers, George, Jack and Fred. The company was renamed the Young Electric Sign Company (YESCO). Prohibition era Becker Brewing Company’s “Becco Beer” was a major sign contract.
Prohibition era Becker Brewing Company’s “Becco Beer” was a major sign contract.
YESCO began manufacturing neon tubing and sold neon signs in Utah, Idaho, Wyoming and Nevada. Ogden’s largest neon sign was created for First Security Bank’s headquarters.
Thomas Young, Jr. was born on April 2, 1928.
YESCO reached 28 full-time employees.
1930's
The devastating Stock Market Crash of 1929 didn’t curb America’s growing appetite for movies. YESCO’s theater marquee signs were still in high demand during the Great Depression.
YESCO expanded business to Las Vegas, Nevada, bought the Ogden Armory for $12,000, and opened larger production facilities and a branch office in Salt Lake City.
Tom was elected president of the National Sign Association, a position he held for two terms. The Salt Lake Tribune-Telegram neon sign was installed.
Thomas Young moved his family and YESCO headquarters to Salt Lake City.
Despite the economic uncertainty caused by the beginning of World War II, YESCO expanded into Northern Nevada.
1940's
America’s entry into WWII caused massive shortages in manpower, but YESCO was able to sustain itself through leasing and maintenance contracts.
The Boulder Club sign was installed in Las Vegas, marking the beginning of the “golden age of neon.” Sign crane trucks were introduced. YESCO acquired Nevada Outdoor Sign Company and opened a branch office in Las Vegas.
YESCO installed neon spectaculars for the Pioneer Club, Golden Nugget, the Las Vegas Club, and the Eldorado Club, creating Las Vegas’ famous “Glitter Gulch.”
YESCO built a new manufacturing plant in Salt Lake City.
YESCO was among the first sign companies to manufacture its own customized neon tubing rather than relying on prefabricated tubes. This tradition of being on the cutting edge of sign technology continues today.
1950's
Vegas Vic, a 75-foot, 12,000 pound sign was built and installed.
YESCO acquired Rainbow Sign Company of Southern Utah. The iconic Welcome to Fabulous Las Vegas sign was designed by Betty Willis and built for the Clark County Commission
The Mint neon spectacular was designed and built. The 1950s came alive with color-neon color. Las Vegas mushroomed into the most razzle-dazzle city in the world. The term “spectacular sign” took on new meaning. In 1959 a massive sign was designed, manufactured, and installed for The Mint Hotel and Casino. Watch the The Mint – The Birth of a Giant
The Golden Nugget neon spectacular was designed and built.
The Silver Slipper neon spectacular was designed and built.
The Stardust neon spectacular was designed and built.
1960's
New acrylic plastics revolutionized the sign industry, and YESCO used the new technology to help banks, car dealers, motels, and other local businesses increase their visibility and appeal.
YESCO designed, built, and installed a new sign for Snelgrove’s Ice Cream in Salt Lake City, featuring a very popular rotating double cone.
The 16-story Walker Bank Building was for many years Salt Lake City’s tallest building. In the 1950’s, YESCO installed a unique sign that flashed different neon colors to indicate changing weather. For residents throughout the valley it was a highly visible weather forecast for four decades.
The National Electric Sign Association Convention (NESA) in Las Vegas was hosted by YESCO.
YESCO acquired Sierra Neon and Western Neon, and YESCO Reno installed the Palace Club and Harrah’s Club spectaculars.
Three-dimensional Dee’s Burger clown signs were designed and installed in Salt Lake City.
Thomas Young, Jr. was named president of YESCO.
YESCO opened branch offices in Idaho Falls and Twin Falls.
The Circus Circus clown spectacular was installed.
1970's
YESCO America was established, and a new YESCO logo was introduced. A branch office was opened in Boise, and Westarc Leasing of Denver was acquired.
In 1970 Thomas and Elmina Young joined with YESCO’s workers to celebrate the company’s 50th anniversary.
Thomas Young died on September 11, 1971.
YESCO expanded the Salt Lake Division and opened offices in Los Angeles, California, Elko, NV, and Kingman, Arizona. Royal Sign Company was acquired. Federal Sign offices in Phoenix, Las Vegas, and Reno were acquired.
YESCO opened a new plant in Las Vegas.
Epcon Signs of Utah, Idaho, Wyoming and Nevada were acquired.
Ben F. Jones, Jr. was elected president of the NESA.
After 45 years, YESCO’s Ogden division moved to a new location.
YESCO opened a branch office in Phoenix.
1980's
YESCO installed the world’s tallest freestanding sign (222.5 feet) at the Sahara Hotel & Casino.
YESCO used a helicopter to install the Commercial Security Bank sign in Salt Lake City.
Caesar’s Palace sign was installed, beginning a new generation of four-color, computerized electronic message centers.
Disney World’s Epcot Center sign package was completed.
YESCO was awarded the Ford Motor Company’s account for the Western United States.
The Las Vegas McCarran International Airport project was completed.
In 1986 YESCO acquired its first computerized cutting machine from Cybermation. This new piece of state-of-the-art equipment enabled craftspeople to design and cut shapes and letters faster and more accurately.
Elmina C. Young died at age 91 on August 9, 1987.
YESCO built new facilities in Boise and Reno.
Michael T. Young was elected president of YESCO.
Computer-aided estimating and design programs introduced.
1990's
World of Coca-Cola landmark sign was installed in Atlanta.
The award-winning Rio Hotel & Casino sign was installed in Las Vegas.
The 82-foot Hard Rock Cafe guitar sign was designed and installed.
YESCO acquired the Advance Neon Sign Company of Denver and Colorado Springs.
YESCO built the Huntsman-Armenian Concrete Corporation sign for delivery to the former USSR.
Wendover Will was renovated after 40 years of service.
Ford Motor Company signed a nationwide contract with YESCO.
YESCO developed an exterior signage and electronics package for the Denver Performing Arts Complex.
General Mills Corporation named YESCO a preferred vendor in the Western United States.
YESCO reached 806 employees.
YESCO installed a landmark sign for John Ascuaga’s Nugget in Reno.
McDonald’s selected YESCO to produce new signs for restaurants in its Western Region.
YESCO Denver moved into a new, 23,000-square foot building.
The Flamingo Hilton sign, measuring 90 feet by 180 feet, was installed in Reno.
YESCO celebrated its 75th anniversary. A Legacy of Light: The History of Young Electric Sign Company was published.
The Fremont Street Experience, a 1,400-foot graphic display system was installed in Las Vegas.
The Fremont Street Experience won an award from the Themed Entertainment Association for being one of the best themed attractions in the country.
The In-N-Out Burger Sign in Las Vegas was completed and became the world’s largest freestanding, quick-service restaurant sign.
Flying J Oil Company selected YESCO to provide signs for over 100 truck stops.
In Salt Lake City, YESCO installed a new sign for Capitol Theater and restored Villa Theater’s 1940 sign.
YESCO’s Interior Division was organized to meet the needs of theme-oriented resorts like, Paris, and Mandalay Bay in Las Vegas.
The Colorado Rockies baseball stadium project was completed.
YESCO donated its archive of 5,000 photographs and 15,000 documents to the University of Nevada, Las Vegas.
Thomas Young was inducted into the Gaming Hall of Fame.
The 110-foot World of Coca-Cola sign was installed in Las Vegas.
YESCO installed the Starbuck Coffee Company corporate headquarters sign in Seattle.
YESCO installed Arizona Diamondbacks baseball stadium signs in Phoenix.
YESCO installed the MGM Grand’s Atlas sculptures in Las Vegas.
“Wedge base” electronic message center technology was used for the first time in Coast Resort signs in Las Vegas. The Reno Hilton sign—an 85-foot, double-faced electronic message center—was installed.
2000's
The new millennium 2000 was celebrated with the installation of the Message Globe at the NBC headquarters in New York City. This YESCO creation features a 35′-diameter sphere covered with thousands of LEDs (light-emitting diodes) which project brilliant full-color video and animated special effects.
The Peppermill Reno Hotel Casino neon spectacular and LED message display were installed.
A 360-degree LED display with full animation was installed in Denver’s Pepsi Center, home of the Denver Nuggets.
YESCO Interior’s work for the Mystic Lake Casino Hotel in Prior Lake, Minnesota, included a fully networked DMX slot display floor designed to coordinate with the property’s architectural lighting.
2010's
YESCO signs enhanced the modern image of the newly constructed Cosmopolitan of Las Vegas. YESCO celebrated a year of record-breaking service sales.
YESCO’s first service franchises were opened in eight territories. YESCO produced signs and lighting for The Shops at Riverwoods in Provo, GM’s World Headquarters, and the Seminole Hard Rock Hotel & Casino.
YESCO produced signs at GM’s World Headquarters, and the Seminole Hard Rock Hotel & Casino.
Spectacular displays were installed at Piccadilly Circus in London’s West end.
YESCO installed the Renown Health Campus gateway sign, Harrah’s AK-CHIN pylon sign, and the enormous LED screen at the Harmon Corner Retail Center.
YESCO manufactured and installed state-of-the-art video displays for EnergySolutions Arena in Salt Lake City, home of the Utah Jazz. The showpiece of the new video screen package was the center-hung feature with four 16:9 HD video displays in a 6 mm pitch.
YESCO Franchising grew to 50 territories.
YESCO manufactured and installed a cutting-edge video system for Louisiana State University’s Tiger Stadium in Baton Rouge.
YESCO renovated the world’s tallest thermometer, located in Baker, California, and returned it to full operational status.
Jeff Young, senior vice president and chief marketing officer for YESCO, was named 2014-15 president of the World Sign Associates.
Jeff Young, senior vice president and chief marketing officer for YESCO, was named 2014-15 president of the World Sign Associates.
YESCO was featured on the CBS Emmy Award winning series “Undercover Boss.” Jan. 2016
YESCO Outdoor Media acquired the billboard assets of Reagan National Advertising in Idaho and Montana. April 2016
Designed and manufactured the 122’ wide by 64’ tall video scoreboard at Rice Eccles Stadium on the campus of the University of Utah. The opening event was the stunt driving Nitro World Games on July 16, 2016.
Joshua M. Young appointed president YESCO Franchising. May 2016
2020's
80-foot-tall Gateway Arches spanning Las Vegas Boulevard between St. Louis and Bob Stupak avenues at the base of The STRAT Hotel, Casino & SkyPod. Conceived and designed by Selbert Perkins Design and fabricated and installed by YESCO.
YESCO celebrated 100 years in business. Today, YESCO represents one of North America’s largest and most-recognized sign companies thanks its historic roster of iconic signs.
YESCO had the honor of restoring the iconic Vegas Vickie sign, which serves as the centerpiece of the brand-new, Circa Resort & Casino in downtown Las Vegas.
YESCO completed the fabrication and installation of nearly 4,000 signs at Allegiant Stadium. The Company brought the Las Vegas Raiders’ new home to life with monumental rooftop lettering, exterior light ribbons and more.
Fourth-generation family members Ryan, Joshua and Nathan Young were named to the Young Electric Sign Company board of directors. In addition, Ryan Young was named president and chief executive officer of Young Electric Sign Company, the parent company of YESCO.
Joshua Young was appointed president of YESCO Custom Signs and YESCO Sign and Lighting Service.
Nathan Young was appointed president of YESCO Outdoor Media.
Thomas Young Jr. and his wife Dwan Young received the 2022 Summit Award from the Salt Lake City Rotary Club 24.
YESCO Designs, Fabricates and Installs New Signage for Wild Horse Pass in Chandler, Arizona
Ogden arch retrofit with LED lights. The distinctive signage arching over Washington Boulevard near the Ogden River that serves as a symbol of Ogden is got a facelift. The original sign was built by YESCO in 1936.
YESCO announces its 10th annual national service convention in Louisville, Kentucky in February, 2022. More than 130 people representing YESCO’s corporate and franchise locations around North America attended the event.
BELIEVE is a distinctive work of public sculpture installed in the City of Reno. Working with Principle RGB LED products, YESCO installed 67 custom-made, wet-rated enclosures which house the controllers, decoders, antennas, amplifiers and power supplies. “Believe” is animated with seven pre-programmed lighting shows. A designated IP address enables the customer to access the controls and change the letters remotely.
YESCO refurbished eight historic Las Vegas neon signs. The resurrected icons are installed along Las Vegas Boulevard.
YESCO completed the fabrication and installation of 10 new signs for Delta Center in Salt Lake City – home of the Utah Jazz NBA franchise and more than 320 days of sports and entertainment events each year.
YESCO recently completed a retrofit of Thanksgiving Point’s freeway display in Lehi, Utah. More than 75 feet tall and 46 feet wide, Thanksgiving Point’s freeway display has been updated with a new 19-foot-by-39-foot wide-screen, high-definition, 19-millimeter WatchFire XVS electronic message center.
YESCO completed the fabrication and installation of four new gateway pylon signs and thirty-three light pillars on the main campus of Weber State University in Ogden, Utah.
YESCO announces the passing of board chairman, Thomas Young Jr. on June 30 , 2023. “It is with a heavy heart we announce the passing of my father and YESCO board chairman Thomas Young Jr.,” said Michael T. Young, executive chairman, YESCO. “My father lived a full life dedicated to serving not only his family but also his community. The Young family is committed to upholding and honoring his extraordinary legacy of service at YESCO and beyond.” Read More — Watch Video
Wendover Will, ‘Cousin’ of Vegas Vic, Gets Makeover. Wendover Will is 72 years old, making him one year younger than Vic, although he is about 25 feet taller. Like Vic, he was built by YESCO, and has also recently been in need of repairs. That new lighting system is LED, which replaces the more traditional neon. Young explains this makes Will more cost-effective and easier to maintain, but it likely won’t be in Vic’s future.
At 92 years old, Dwan Young Named World’s Oldest Female Water-Skier by Guinness World Records. Dwan is a board member and matriarch of YESCO. The “adventure-loving” grandmother started skiing when her family bought a cabin on Bear Lake in 1961. The sport’s popularity at the lake, located on the Utah-Idaho border about 100 miles northeast of Salt Lake City.
YESCO Featured on Amazon Prime Documentary “Neon.” Video that explores the history of neon as well as its influence on American culture. YESCO, along with several prominent YESCO-designed signs, are featured in the documentary. The company has strong roots in creativity, artistry, and innovation which continues to inspire the work we do.
YESCO announces it has completely restored all five exterior building signs and added a new “cocktails” sign at the historic Golden Steer Steakhouse Las Vegas.
The Clark County Board of Commissioners officially declared Tuesday, May 7 as YESCO Welcome Sign Day in honor of the renowned, 104-year-old sign company and its significant contributions in Southern Nevada. YESCO Las Vegas vice president Mitch Olorenshaw received the proclamation from Commissioner Michael Naft on behalf of YESCO during a special ceremony.
Sept. 2024 — YESCO Completes New Signage for Chandler Airpark in Chandler Arizona. The project, initiated in early 2022, was part of Chandler’s ongoing placemaking and branding initiatives aimed at enhancing the identity of key areas. The City of Chandler engaged YESCO to design and construct seven new displays, strategically located throughout the airport to highlight the area’s importance and provide clear, impactful wayfinding. Read More
Oct. 2024 — YESCO announces the fabrication and installation of a colossal hockey puck for Smith Entertainment Group’s Utah Hockey Club, prominently displayed on Delta Center’s Main Plaza. Towering at 14 feet, 3 inches tall, 13 feet wide and nearly 2 feet deep, the larger-than-life puck now stands proudly next to the famed Utah Jazz “J Note” statue, adding a striking new element to the heart of Downtown Salt Lake City. Read More
Dec. 2024 — YESCO has successfully completed the retrofit of the Harmon Corner building’s LED Wall, an iconic digital display at one of the busiest intersections on the Las Vegas Strip. The new LED Wall is part of a renovation of the Harmon Corner building and is undergoing a major building renovation that will include new retail suites and a new marketplace at street level. Originally unveiled as the largest sign of its type in the world in 2012 when the building opened, YESCO met the owner’s goal of completing this first phase of the 2024 renovation in time for the second Las Vegas Grand Prix. Read More
Current
March 2025 — YESCO completed the design, fabrication and installation of more than 1,200 interior and exterior signs for Chicken Ranch Casino Resort in Jamestown, California. This ambitious project featured a variety of signage solutions, including marquee signs, operational and wayfinding displays, venue identifiers and ADA-compliant code signage. Requiring more than 12,000 man-hours of labor over a 30-month period, the project seamlessly integrated form, function and aesthetic appeal into a comprehensive property-wide signage program. Read More
June 2025 — YESCO fabricated and installed new signage for the iconic El Cortez Hotel & Casino in Downtown Las Vegas. The project included entry canopies, a corner wrap sign, a garage static cabinet and decorative garage mesh. YESCO also provided interior directional signage to further enhance the guest experience within the hotel-casino. Read More
YESCO announced the retirement of Steve Jones who officially concludes his distinguished career of more than 32 years of service on July 31, 2025. Throughout his esteemed career, Steve held numerous leadership roles and left a lasting impact on YESCO’s legacy. From his early days in Ogden, Utah, as assistant manager and outdoor manager to his later appointment as president of YESCO Custom Signs, Steve brought vision, stability and compassion to every position he held. Read More
Sept. 2025 — YESCO completed a series of exterior signs for the Showcase Mall on the Las Vegas Strip. The project features state-of-the-art LED displays, towering signs and custom blade signage designed to captivate millions of passersby in one of the world’s most iconic tourism corridors. The primary highlight of the installation is a 171-foot-10-inch-tall by 57-foot-wide double-sided pylon sign, outfitted with two massive 86-foot by 57-foot 10-mm LED displays. Read More
Sept. 2025 — YESCO completed new interior fine pixel pitch displays for Talking Stick Resort in Scottsdale, Arizona. The project included installing 54 brilliant individual displays across the property, totaling 335 million pixels. A centerpiece of the installation is the showroom’s 15-by-32-foot 1.5mm display, engineered to be lowered and raised with a hoist system to accommodate live performances. Read More
Dec. 2025 — YESCO collaborated with The Neon Museum and El Cortez Hotel & Casino, bringing the vintage “Prime Rib $19.95” sign back to brilliant illumination. Originally installed in 1974 on the El Cortez parking garage, this massive 18-foot by 28-foot sign has long been a symbol of Downtown Las Vegas’ classic charm. Now, thanks to YESCO’s technical expertise, it has officially joined the museum’s permanent Neon Boneyard collection. Read More
Jan. 2026 — YESCO complets the illuminated gateway arch that spans the entrance to Yuba City’s historic heart. The striking new sign was designed to celebrate the community’s identity while providing a prominent focal point for visitors and residents alike. Spanning the main downtown thoroughfare, the single-face illuminated arch measures 26 feet 3 inches high by 56 feet 4 inches wide. Read More
Jan. 2026 — YESCO and Orange Barrel Media (OBM) announce the completion of two large-scale signage projects for legendary Sunset Strip venues, The Roxy Theatre and The Rainbow Bar & Grill, located in West Hollywood, California. The new signage installations were designed and executed to enhance the visibility and presence of both venues along the world’s most recognizable entertainment corridor. Read More
It is with great respect that we share the passing of our former colleague and friend, Benjamin F Jones Jr. Ben passed away on January 30, 2026, at the age of 94. For those of us at YESCO who had the privilege of working with Ben, he was more than just an employee; he was a cornerstone of our team. Read More
Contact Us
866-777-6988
Locations
Request Repair
Request Sign Proposal
Request Billboard Proposal
Company
Gallery
History
Industries
Signs of Success
Career
More Information
Welcome to Las Vegas Sign
Contractor Licenses
Privacy Policy
Executive Summary
Notice of Privacy For California
Sitemap
Social Media
Copyright © 2026 YESCO. All rights reserved.
Custom Signs
Gallery
Concept to Completion
Request Proposal
Sign Financing
Service
Request Repair
Retrofit Financing
Billboards
Why YESCO
Design Tips
Billboard Locations
Billboard Financing
Contacts
Request Proposal
Printed Signs (Browse Products)
Own a Franchise
Financing
Financing Options
Careers
Apply Now – Jobs
Contact
Locations
Request Repair
Request Billboard Proposal
Request Sign Proposal
About Us
Blog
Gallery
Our History Old
Industries
Testimonials
