Qualtrics Appoints Jason Maynard as CEO
Skip to main content
Newsroom
Qualtrics Appoints Jason Maynard As CEO
Qualtrics Appoints Jason Maynard as Chief Executive Officer
Feb 3, 2026
Qualtrics
share
Copied To Clipboard!
PROVO, Utah and SEATTLE — [Feb. 3, 2026] — Qualtrics, the leader and creator of the experience management (XM) category, today announced the appointment of Jason Maynard as Chief Executive Officer, effective immediately. Maynard will also join the Qualtrics Board of Directors.
A proven technology executive with 30 years of experience scaling world-class software businesses, Maynard will lead Qualtrics as its AI solutions give organizations a deeper understanding of the people they serve to build trust and deliver better experiences, which are driving millions in returns and significant time and cost savings. The appointment comes as Qualtrics scales its AI investments, led by the $6.75 billion pending acquisition of Press Ganey.
“Jason has scaled one of the most successful cloud businesses, built products customers depend on, and has a sharp perspective on where AI is taking our industry. That's a powerful combination that will take Qualtrics, our category, and the value we deliver to customers to the next level,” said Jim Whitehurst, Executive Chairman of Qualtrics.
“Qualtrics invented Experience Management, and with AI at the core of modern business the ability to understand human experience and act on what matters in context is more important than ever,” said Jason Maynard, Chief Executive Officer of Qualtrics. “This is a rare opportunity to lead the company that created its category and build on that foundation with innovation, execution, and a relentless focus on delivering real impact for our customers.”
“I’m incredibly excited to support Jason as he leads Qualtrics in this next phase,” said Ryan Smith, co-founder of Qualtrics. “Jason’s background, market experience, and ability to lead out in new trends is critical for where the technology ecosystem and Qualtrics are going. He is the perfect person to lead through this next frontier of Experience Management with AI at the center of everything.”
Maynard joins from Oracle, where he was Executive Vice President of Revenue Operations. He joined Oracle through its 2016 acquisition of NetSuite, where he helped scale revenue nearly fivefold and grow the customer base from 11,000 to over 43,000. Prior to this, Maynard spent 15 years as a top-ranked analyst at Merrill Lynch, Credit Suisse, and Wells Fargo.
Qualtrics is seeing significant momentum in AI adoption and innovation, with nearly half of customers having upgraded to these capabilities. The opportunity now is to scale adoption and enable more companies to drive customer loyalty, reduce churn, increase employee engagement, and deliver faster consumer, employee, and market insights.
Maynard assumes full leadership of the company effective immediately. Jim Whitehurst and Mark Gillett, who served as interim co-CEOs, return to their roles on the Qualtrics Board of Directors, with Whitehurst continuing as the Board’s Executive Chairman.
About Qualtrics
Qualtrics is trusted by thousands of the world’s best organizations to power exceptional customer and employee experiences that build deep human connections, increase customer loyalty, boost employee engagement, and drive business success. Our advanced AI and specialized Experience Agents™ allow businesses and governments to proactively interact with customers and employees in personalized ways across every channel and touchpoint, respond in-the-moment to fix or improve experiences, and stay across the latest market trends and opportunities.
✕
#
#
close
Request a demo
Thank you
We'll contact you shortly
First Name
Last Name
Company
Job Title
Email
Phone Number
- Select - Afghanistan Åland Islands Albania Algeria American Samoa Andorra Angola Anguilla Antarctica Antigua and Barbuda Argentina Armenia Aruba Australia Austria Azerbaijan Bahamas Bahrain Bangladesh Barbados Belarus Belgium Belize Benin Bermuda Bhutan Bolivia Bonaire, Sint Eustatius and Saba Bosnia and Herzegovina Botswana Bouvet Island Brazil British Indian Ocean Territory Brunei Darussalam Bulgaria Burkina Faso Burundi Cambodia Cameroon Canada Cape Verde Cayman Islands Central African Republic Chad Chile China Christmas Island Cocos (Keeling) Islands Colombia Comoros Congo, The Republic of the Cook Islands Costa Rica Côte d'Ivoire Croatia Curaçao Cyprus Czech Republic Denmark Djibouti Dominica Dominican Republic Ecuador Egypt El Salvador Equatorial Guinea Eritrea Estonia Ethiopia Falkland Islands (Malvinas) Faroe Islands Fiji Finland France French Guiana French Polynesia French Southern Territories Gabon Gambia Georgia Germany Ghana Gibraltar Greece Greenland Grenada Guadeloupe Guam Guatemala Guernsey Guinea Guinea-Bissau Guyana Haiti Heard Island and McDonald Islands Holy See (Vatican City State) Honduras Hong Kong, China Hungary Iceland India Indonesia Iraq Ireland Isle of Man Israel Italy Jamaica Japan Jersey Jordan Kazakhstan Kenya Kuwait Kyrgyzstan Lao Latvia Lebanon Lesotho Liberia Libya Liechtenstein Lithuania Luxembourg Macau, China Macedonia Madagascar Malawi Malaysia Maldives Mali Malta Marshall Islands Martinique Mauritania Mauritius Mayotte Mexico Micronesia Moldova Monaco Mongolia Montenegro Montserrat Morocco Mozambique Myanmar Namibia Nauru Nepal Netherlands New Caledonia New Zealand Nicaragua Niger Nigeria Niue Norfolk Island Northern Mariana Islands Norway Oman Pakistan Palau Palestine Panama Papua New Guinea Paraguay Peru Philippines Pitcairn Poland Portugal Puerto Rico Qatar Réunion Romania Russia, excluding Crimea Rwanda Saint Barthélemy Saint Helena, Ascension and Tristan da Cunha Saint Kitts and Nevis Saint Lucia Saint Martin (French part) Saint Pierre and Miquelon Saint Vincent and the Grenadines Samoa San Marino Sao Tome and Principe Saudi Arabia Senegal Serbia Seychelles Sierra Leone Singapore Sint Maarten (Dutch part) Slovakia Slovenia Solomon Islands Somalia South Africa South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands South Korea South Sudan Spain Sri Lanka Sudan Suriname Svalbard and Jan Mayen Swaziland Sweden Switzerland Taiwan, China Tajikistan Tanzania Thailand Timor-Leste Togo Tokelau Tonga Trinidad and Tobago Tunisia Turkey Turkmenistan Turks and Caicos Islands Tuvalu Uganda Ukraine, excluding Crimea United Arab Emirates United Kingdom United States United States Minor Outlying Islands Uruguay Uzbekistan Vanuatu Venezuela Viet Nam Virgin Islands, British Virgin Islands, U.S. Wallis and Futuna Western Sahara Yemen Zambia Zimbabwe
Country
Lead Comments
Yes, I would like to receive marketing communications regarding Qualtrics products, services, and events
Privacy Optin
By providing this information, you agree that we may process your personal data in accordance with our Privacy Statement .
Submit
&times;
close
