About - Globus Relief
Fund Relief
$25 = Provides 10 people with medical supplies
$50 = Provides 20 people with medical supplies
$100 = Provides 40 people with medical supplies
$250 = Provides 100 people with medical supplies
About Us Leadership
Financials
Contact
Medical Supply Portal
Stories of Relief
Programs
Donate
Providing Lifesaving Medical Resources Since 1998
For over 26 years, our dedication has ensured that medical resources reach where they are needed most, saving lives and bolstering healthcare systems. With a focus exclusively on medical resources, we are a beacon of hope for hospitals, clinics, mobile clinics and individuals globally.
See Our Mission
Our Impact Together
160+
Countries Served
$1 Billion
Medical Supplies Given
26+
Years Experience
Donate Now
Our Lifesaving Mission
Connecting donated money and medical resources to the people in need.
Operational Efficiency
Because of our unique self-funding operating model our overhead, administrative, and fundraising expenses are already paid for. This allows us to ensure that 100% of your donations go directly to humanitarian programs.
We pride ourselves in maintaining transparency in our financial records and responsibility in our fiscal decisions. Financial integrity, one of our core values, is one of many reasons we continue to receive Charity Navigator's highest, 4-star rating year after year.
Frequently Asked Questions
What is the mission of Globus Relief?
Our mission is to connect donated money and medical resources to those in need, saving lives and strengthening healthcare systems worldwide.
What problem does Globus Relief address?
We tackle the global healthcare challenge of limited access to medical resources and inefficiencies in distribution systems, ensuring supplies reach where they are needed most.
How does Globus Relief ensure efficient use of donations?
With administrative and fundraising expenses below 1%, nearly all donations directly support our life-saving mission, maximizing the impact of every contribution.
How widespread is Globus Relief's impact?
We have distributed medical resources to communities in over 160 countries, supported by a network of 850+ partner charities.
How can individuals support Globus Relief?
By donating to Globus Relief, individuals help provide essential medical resources to those in dire need, transforming lives and strengthening healthcare systems.
Why should organizations partner with Globus Relief?
Partnering with us ensures access to affordable, high-quality medical supplies, backed by over 25 years of expertise and a proven track record in medical supply chain management.
Contact Us
[email protected]
801-977-0444
1032 West 2610 South
Salt Lake City, UT 84119
