Carv is hiring!
Buy
Careers
at Carv
Join us to build the future of sports wearables and revolutionise the ski industry.
See open roles
Find your
edge
We are Carv, a startup bringing the cutting edge of sports technology to skiing. We are a purpose led team, driven by our goal of making ski coaching accessible to more people. Because we believe the better you get at skiing, the more fun it becomes.
We love our sport, and we love what we do. We've come a long way since 2015, but our goal is a big one. And there is a mountain left to climb.
Available roles
Available roles
A team of
initiative-takers
As you've probably noticed, we're an ambitious bunch!
But despite our growth, we're committed to maintaining a culture driven by friendship, built on a foundation of shared passions and understanding. Everyone mucks in, adventures outside their comfort zone, and thrives on trying new things.
We're always
improving
Improvement is the essence of what we do. We dedicate our time to help our members be the best skiers they can be, every season. And we bring this energy to our team - supporting each other as we learn, upskill, and progress.
We believe in helping skiers unlock the mountain.
We believe in helping you unlock the next level of your career.
We're growing and fast
In 2015 Carv was little more than 2 founders, a prototype, and a dream. We've come a long way since then, growing to a team of 10 by 2019, and we now have over 50 full-time carvers. But we're only just getting started...
Carv Kickstarted
In 2016 , Carv broke records to become the most funded sports wearable on Kickstarter.
1 million turns
By 2018 , thousands of skiers around the world had collectively recorded over 1M turns with Carv.
10,000 Carvers
In 2021 we welcomed our 10,000th Carv skier and celebrated another sell-out season.
Membership launches
In 2021 , we launched membership and invested in developing our coaching every season.
Olympic Level Coaching
In 2022 we partnered with Ted Ligety, 5-time world champion to bring the advice of the world's best to our members
Carv 2 launches
In 2024 we launched Carv 2, ditching the footbeds for sensors that clip straight to your boots, and doubling the number of skiers improving with Carv.
1 billion turns
By 2025 , the Carv community had recorded over a billion turns skied — and we've analysed every one.
Carv Kickstarted
In 2016 , Carv broke records to become the most funded sports wearable on Kickstarter.
10,000 Carvers
In 2021 we welcomed our 10,000th Carv skier and celebrated another sell-out season.
Olympic Level Coaching
In 2022 we partnered with Ted Ligety, 5-time world champion to bring the advice of the world's best to our members
1 billion turns
By 2025 , the Carv community had recorded over a billion turns skied — and we've analysed every one.
1 million turns
By 2018 , thousands of skiers around the world had collectively recorded over 1M turns with Carv.
Membership launches
In 2021 , we launched membership and invested in developing our coaching every season.
Carv 2 launches
In 2024 we launched Carv 2, ditching the footbeds for sensors that clip straight to your boots, and doubling the number of skiers improving with Carv.
What's it like
to work here?
We could tell you what working at Carv is like. But we thought it would be better to show you.
See open roles
Location? Flexible
London, England
Carv Headquarters
Carv was born in the UK, and our home is in
Vauxhall, London. Most of our team are based
here, but you don't need to live near us to help
build the future of ski coaching. Besides, you'll
often find us out testing in the mountains...
Innsbruck, Austria
Carv Europe Base
Innsbruck is our home away from home. You'll
be here testing new features, honing your own
skiing, and celebrating the end of the season at
Carvfest. Wherever you're based, get in touch if you
think you can make a difference.
Park City, United States
Carv North American Base
Park City is where our on-snow customer testing
comes to life. Our newest addition to the Carv offices, where
we are closest to our US customer base. If you're based in the US,
get in touch and let us see how you can help us build the future
of ski coaching.
Take it from our team
Supply Chain Manager
Matt
“After graduating I worked as a ski instructor, getting people hooked on skiing one lesson at a time. Carv looked like the perfect way to do that on a bigger scale - make skiing more accessible, and do it in a fast-moving startup.
I started as a Customer Success intern, which got me close to our users and their experience with Carv. Three years on, I've helped launch Carv 2, moved into operations and rebuilt our warehouse network, and now I get to help build thousands of units and ship them to customers all over the world as Carv grows.
Working at Carv has meant I've got to live in the Alps for three winters and ski 40 days a year, while helping build a product I genuinely love. But the best part is that you're constantly pushed into new challenges, handed real responsibility, and get to work alongside a truly talented team moving incredibly fast.”
Social Media and Community Manager
Rosie
“I've always loved skiing and wanted to find a social media role that allowed me to keep my life in London but ski as much as possible. Fast forward to now, and I've been with Carv just under two years and had the opportunity to ski across four continents - all whilst living in London.
But the best part about Carv is the people. Everyone in the company, regardless of your role, is encouraged to travel and meet our amazing community around the world. Not to mention, you'll have some of the most talented and forward-thinking colleagues you'll ever meet.
Working for Carv can be challenging at times, but you'll learn a huge amount and have a laugh doing it.”
Get your skis on
Flexible location
We're based between London, Park City and Innsbruck, with certain roles available remotely. For office roles, we're in location 3 days per week.
SUPERCHARGE YOUR SKIING
You'll get your very own Carv to help you level up your skiing. Plus, we'll throw in lift passes when you're on the mountain.
TIME ON SNOW
Throughout the season, our mountain offices and staff accommodation provide an easy way for you to pack in some ski time and get Carving.
CARVFEST
Every April we fly everyone out to Innsbruck for our season round-up, to enjoy spring skiing, sun, apres, and awards.
3 steps to success
- Submit your application
Use the button below to view our currently available roles.
For the first step in your application, you’ll be asked to submit a CV and a cover letter to begin your application.
-
+ Complete an online task
If your CV and cover letter demonstrate that you could be a good fit at Carv, we'll usually set you an online task to complete.
We'll give you detailed instructions when you get to this stage.
-
+ Interview stages
We have a highly flexible application process, so the number of interview stages required depends on the role that you are applying for.
But no matter your role, every successful candidate will experience a final ‘culture fit’ interview with our CEO.
-
Available positions
No role for you?
If there isn't a role for you right now, don't worry!
If you're passionate and want to make a difference in a sport you love, join our Carv careers mailing list using the sign-up form below and we'll keep you updated when opportunities become available.
