IONIC - From Resource to Resilience
Skip to main content
Company
Our Team
Media
Careers
Tap for sound
From Resource to Resilience
Ionic Mineral Technologies is building the world’s most comprehensive hub for rare earths and critical minerals.
Built for speed and scale, Ionic MT is establishing the nation’s first sovereign, shovel-ready supply chain for the materials that power defense, energy, and advanced technology — ensuring the United States leads by design, not dependence.
Ionic MT is more than the next chapter in rare earths and critical minerals — it is a re-engineering of how leading manufacturers and technology providers source the materials that unlock the future.
Critical
REE's Suite
Ionisil™
Nano‑Silicon
IonaAL™
Boehmite Alumina
Critical
Metals Suite
Providing the capability to establish new domestic sources for elements with historic U.S. import reliance.
Defense radar
Comms equipment
Semiconductors
Optical systems
Quantum computing
Advanced electronics
Electric Vehicles
IonAL™
Boehmite alumina
Onshoring a foundational industrial material, Boehmite alumina IonAL™ supports U.S. aluminum supply chains and helps address import reliance on alumina inputs for aluminum production.
Aerospace
Catalysts
Alumina production
Ceramics
Speciality chemicals
Ionisil™
Nano‑silicon
Powering the future of energy storage. A high‑performance silicon material engineered for use in semiconductors and advanced batteries that enable critical defense and EV applications.
EV Batteries
Defense drones
Fast charging
Energy storage
Ionic MT combines simplicity, scale, and security through three integrated verticals: rare earths and critical minerals, high-purity alumina, and nano-silicon — all derived from a single feedstock. Using a low-emission, nearly waste-free process with up to 95% recovery, Ionic MT turns Utah’s geology into a national strategic asset.
With a fully permitted mining site and a 74,000 sq. ft. operational processing facility in Provo, the company is positioned to move from pilot to production in months, not years — delivering the critical materials for magnets, semiconductors, and batteries that America urgently needs.
Full Site Coming 2026
Get In Touch
Let’s connect
Comments
This field is for validation purposes and should be left unchanged.
CAPTCHA
Subscribe to our Newsletter: (Required)
&copy; 2026 Ionic Mineral Technologies. All Rights Reserved
Privacy Policy
Terms & Conditions
Your Privacy on this Website
We collect information about your visit through cookies and web beacons. You can opt out through your browser, but then you will not have access to all the functions of the website.
To learn more, read our Privacy Notice .
Accept
