NOW CFO: Fractional CFO Services For Business Growth
We value your privacy
We use cookies and related technologies to help enhance your experience on this site. Essential cookies that enable the core functionality of the site are always active. You can opt-in to non-essential cookies that enable performance, functional, and targeting/advertising cookies. These non-essential cookies authorize us to collect, use, and share information about your site interactions with third-party advertising and analytics providers, tailor our services, digital experiences, and advertising content to your preferences. You have the right to change your consent at any time by selecting “Cookie Preferences” in the footer of the site.
For more information, please see our Privacy Policy .
see more
Manage Preferences
Reject All
Accept All
Cookie Preferences
We use cookies to improve your browsing experience, serve personalized ads or content, and analyze our traffic. By clicking "Accept All", you consent to our use of cookies.
Essential Cookies
Required
These cookies are necessary for the website to function and cannot be switched off.
Performance Cookies
Allow us to count visits and traffic sources so we can measure and improve performance.
Functional Cookies
Enable the website to provide enhanced functionality and personalization for your experience.
Marketing/Advertising Cookies
May be set through our site by advertising partners to build a profile of your interests.
Accept Selected
Accept All Cookies
Skip to content
Services
Outsourced CFO Services
Outsourced Controller Services
Outsourced Accounting Services
Outsourced Bookkeeping
Permanent Hires
About
Locations
Our Team
Company
Market Locations
Careers
News Room
Blog
801-938-4764
Free Consultation
Flexible Accounting and Finance Solutions Built to Scale
Fractional CFO & Accounting Support To Help You Focus On What You Do Best,
Running Your Business.
Free Consultation
Learn More
20+ Years Of Experience
20+ Locations
15,000+ Clients
300+ Professionals
You’re In Good Company
AT NOW CFO
We are a full-service financial consulting firm that provides flexible accounting and finance solutions designed to scale with businesses as they grow.
We work alongside leadership teams to strengthen financial operations, improve reporting, and provide the insight needed to make confident business decisions.
We offer scalable support across every level of the finance function, including fractional financial leadership, project-based engagements, and permanent hires for accounting and finance roles.
OUR SERVICES
No Matter the Need, We Have You Covered
CFO &
Finance Strategy
Budgeting & Forecasting
Financial Planning & Analysis
Mergers & Acquisitions
Cash Flow Management
KPIs & Dashboards
Board & Investor Reporting
Treasury Management
Margin & SG&A Improvement
Learn More
CONTROLLER &
ACCOUNTING ADVISORY
Month-End Close
Audit Preparation
Financial Reporting
Transaction Accounting
Systems Implementation
Technical Accounting
Internal Controls
Chart of Accounts Design
Learn More
STAFF ACCOUNTANT &
FINANCIAL OPERATIONS
Bank Reconciliations
Journal Entries
GL Maintenance
Accounts Payable
Accounts Receivable
Payroll Admin
Inventory Management
Master Data Management
Learn More
Why Businesses Trust NOW CFO
Full-Service Accounting
From bookkeeping to financial reporting, we handle it all.
Fractional CFO & Controller Services
Get executive-level financial expertise without the full-time cost.
Scalable Solutions
Whether you’re expanding, restructuring, or preparing for an exit, we adapt to your needs.
Data-Driven Insights
We turn numbers into strategy, helping you make smarter financial decisions.
Industry Expertise
We partner with every industry, no sector is outside our reach.
Services to Help Your Business Grow
Accounting Services
Comprehensive outsourced accounting solutions that provide clear financial visibility and control over your business.
Learn More
Recruiting Services & Permanent Hires
Placement and executive search services to find and place top accounting talent to strengthen your team.
Learn More
01
Financial Clarity
Get a full accounting team’s expertise and knowledge for a fraction of the cost. Our outsourced accounting services ensure accuracy, compliance, and strategic growth.
02
Technology-Driven
We implement and optimize accounting systems that streamline processes, reduce errors, and enhance financial visibility for smarter decision-making.
03
Strategic Insights
Businesses use accounting information to gain real-time financial visibility to make data-driven decisions. Our experts provide forecasting, budgeting, and reporting solutions tailored to your business needs.
Advantages
Outsourced Accounting, Optimized for Growth
We handle your accounting so you can focus on scaling your business. From bookkeeping to CFO-level strategy, our team ensures accuracy, compliance, and financial clarity.
Get a Free Consultation
Process
How It Works
We seamlessly integrate into your team, providing financial support with the flexibility and collaboration of an in-house partner.
STEP 1
Consult
We start with a complimentary consultation to understand your business, identify opportunities, and address your challenges with tailored financial solutions.
STEP 2
Match
We pair you with a CFO, Controller, or Staff Accountant whose expertise aligns perfectly with your needs, ensuring the right fit for your business.
STEP 3
Engage
You set the terms and timeline of your engagement with full transparency. Track progress and stay informed 24/7—so you're always in control.
Don’t Just Take Our Word for It…
Client Success, In Their Own Words
We have been overjoyed with the talent NOW CFO brought us. We did not have the staff bandwidth and they have been the perfect fit for our growing company. We were able to find the skillsets we were looking for, and NOW CFO was able to find our unicorn.
Heath McMillan
COO at CKR Financial Services
NOW CFO was professional, knowledgeable, and courteous. They identified payroll fraud within our company, set up controls to make sure that time stealing did not continue and was instrumental in training our new admin.
Evelyn Gorman
President & CEO at GNS Electric Inc.
NOW CFO has become an integral part of our management team. Since everything is cleaned up, we can move forward and look to the future instead of being stuck in the present. Would recommend them for any type of business.
Doug Martin
CEO at Houston Country Community Hospital
Because of the current economic climate, it is hard for us to retain staff who are capable of the accounting and CFO work that is needed. We would highly recommend using NOW CFO because of their superior service, value, and business acumen.
Kelcey Alison
CEO at Gaming Specialized Logistics
From the beginning of our relationship, NOW CFO has made us feel like we are in good hands. Our former bookkeepers had created a mess and NOW CFO stepped right in and learned our software and cleaned up the mess rapidly.
Kevin Gilbert
Office Administrator at Johnson May Law
Over my 25-year entrepreneurial journey I have worked with many consultants, but they always felt like outsiders. NOW CFO is different and felt like part of our team. They rolled up their sleeves and pitched in wherever it was needed. PRICELESS!
Lief Larson
Co-Founder & COO at JennyLife
I am so glad we chose NOW CFO to help us with our accounting needs. Our controller level support has been phenomenal with the expertise, insights and commitment to our company. If we need anything, they are there and ready to jump in and help.
Tiffany Lacolucci
Business Performance VP at Moore Fire Protection
READY FOR YOUR FREE CONSULTATION?
We provide outsourced, fractional, and temporary CFO, Controller, and operational accounting services that suit the needs of your business.
For Faster Service
801-938-4764
Hourly Rates
No Hidden Fees
No Long-Term Requirements
State Alabama Alaska Arizona Arkansas California Colorado Connecticut Delaware District Of Columbia Florida Georgia Hawaii Idaho Illinois Indiana Iowa Kansas Kentucky Louisiana Maine Maryland Massachusetts Michigan Minnesota Mississippi Missouri Montana Nebraska Nevada New Hampshire New Jersey New Mexico New York North Carolina North Dakota Ohio Oklahoma Oregon Pennsylvania Rhode Island South Carolina South Dakota Tennessee Texas Utah Vermont Virginia Washington West Virginia Wisconsin Wyoming
Accounting Support Bookkeeping Support CFO Support Controller Support Placement Services Other
How should we contact you?
Phone Email
Best time to contact
Time Preferences No Preference Morning (8am-12pm) Afternoon (12pm-5pm)
I consent to receive SMS from NOW CFO. Reply STOP to opt-out; Reply HELP for assistance; Message and data rates apply; Messaging frequency may vary. Privacy Policy
Get My Free Consultation
Services
Recruiting
Careers
Company
Contact Us
Call Us Now
801-938-4764
Connect With Us
Join Our Newsletter
Terms of Service
Privacy Policy
Cookie Setting
© 2026 NOW CFO, LLC. All Rights Reserved. NOW CFO is not a CPA Firm.
