MasterControl Solutions, Inc. expands in Salt Lake County - Governor's Office of Economic Development
MasterControl Solutions, Inc. expands in Salt Lake County
Kaitlyn Clarke December 14, 2023 Archive , News , Tax Credits
Photo: Jon Beckstrand, CEO of MasterControl, addresses customers and employees at Masters Summit 2023. The annual event held in Salt Lake City brings over 1,000 people together to learn about MasterControl’s latest technology and what’s
next on the product roadmap.
Photo Credit: Austen Diamond Photography for the image.
Today, the Utah Governor’s Office of Economic Opportunity awarded MasterControl Solutions, Inc. a post-performance tax reduction for its expansion in Salt Lake County. The corporate incentive is part of the state’s Economic Development Tax Increment Financing program.
As part of the agreement, MasterControl projects to add approximately 155 new, high-paying jobs in Utah during the next six years.
“We are pleased to see the expansion of a globally reputable company such as MasterControl as it reflects Utah’s thriving spirit of progress,” said Ryan Starks, executive director of the Governor’s Office of Economic Opportunity. “MasterControl’s expansion speaks to Utah’s reputation as a hub for tech innovation and underscores the company’s commitment to economic growth within our state. We congratulate them on this strategic decision.”
MasterControl is a leading provider of quality and manufacturing software for pharmaceutical, medical device, and other regulated industries. For thirty years, its mission has been the same as that of its customers — to bring life-changing products to more people sooner. MasterControl’s innovative Advanced Data and Process Technology (ADAPT) Platform helps companies digitalize, automate, and connect complex processes to accelerate operations, reduce costs, and ensure compliance. That’s why over 1,100 companies worldwide use MasterControl’s software, analytics, and artificial intelligence solutions every day to manufacture the highest quality products — faster. MasterControl is headquartered in Cottonwood Heights, Utah, and has global offices in the United Kingdom, Japan, Australia, and Singapore.
“MasterControl started in Utah more than 30 years ago, and we are delighted to be expanding once again as we develop quality and manufacturing software that will help our customers bring life-changing products to market,” said Jon Beckstrand, CEO of MasterControl. “Utah offers a healthy business environment, a highly educated workforce, and lifestyle amenities that are all important aspects for MasterControl’s continued success.”
“In addition to being a Silicon Slopes company itself, MasterControl is a key contributor to several of Utah’s targeted industry sectors, including software and IT, life sciences, and aerospace and defense,” said Scott Cuthbertson, president and CEO of EDCUtah. “We’re pleased to see one of Utah’s anchor companies continue to grow right here in Utah.”
Tax Credit Projections
Timeline:
6 years
Jobs:
155
Wages:
$61,099,500
New state tax revenue:
$2,268,064
New state tax credit:
20%
60 East South Temple
Suite 300
Salt Lake City, Utah
84111-1041
Phone: (801) 538-8680
Email: [email protected]
Navigation Menu
Home
About
Accolades & Rankings
Boards
Community Data Profiles
Grants & Funding
Events
One Utah Summit
Featured Development Opportunities
In Utah
100 Companies Championing Women
Publications
Statewide Economic Development Contacts
Targeted Industries
Utah Elevated
Why Utah?
Workforce Services
Programs & Services
APEX Accelerator
Business Recruitment & Expansion
Center for International Business & Diplomacy
Center for Rural Development
Community Initiatives
Housing & Community Development
Opportunity Zones
Startup State Initiative
UPSTART
Utah Center for Global Talent
Utah Film Commission
Utah Office of Regulatory Relief
Utah Office of Tourism
Utah Small Business Credit Initiative
News
Contact
Newsletters
Social Media
Team
GOED Employee Hub
Email Newsletter
Sign up for our email newsletter to learn more about our office.
Subscribe
Translate »
