Utah Center for Global Talent - Governor's Office of Economic Development
Home
Utah Center for Global Talent
Utah Center for Global Talent
GOED’s Utah Center for Global Talent, created by the Utah Legislature in 2021, helps businesses navigate pathways to recruit and retain global talent. The center advocates for strategies that promote economic opportunity for new Americans and foreign-born individuals who follow legal immigration pathways, bringing them to Utah.
The center’s work supports Utah’s economy by helping businesses address workforce shortages and providing economic support for Utahns, their families, and communities.
Utah Citizenship Initiative
The Utah Citizenship Initiative helps communities around the state learn about and utilize resources to become U.S. citizens through strategic partners and local expertise.
Learn More
The Center for Economic Opportunity and Belonging
During the 2025-2026 state fiscal year, the Utah Center for Global Talent, through a public procurement process, secured the services of The Center for Economic Opportunity and Belonging (CEOB) to promote economic opportunities for new Americans and legal immigrant communities across the state.
In this partnership, CEOB provides day-to-day operations for the center's programs, including collaboratively managing the New Americans Task Force.
The Global Talent and CEOB partnership allows the state to leverage CEOB's expertise and networks to advise Utah's leaders and officials on foreign labor challenges and opportunities and coordinate with organizations to inform policies that promote economic opportunity for all Utahns.
The center’s work includes:
Coordination — Working with federal, state, and local organizations to help inform policies that promote economic opportunity for Utahns
Strategy — Promoting economic opportunities for new Americans and legal immigrant communities throughout the state
Convening — Leading a task force that reviews and recommends state immigration policies and builds relationships with officials, businesses, and community leaders
Advising — Providing policy recommendations to Utah’s leaders and officials, and helping Utah businesses navigate foreign labor challenges and opportunities
2023 National Welcoming Week Video
Watch Gov. Cox invite Utahns to build a stronger state one home and community at a time.
New Americans in Utah
As foreign-born individuals, new Americans are a vital workforce component of Utah’s fast-growing and robust economy. They arrive in Utah for various reasons, including refugees fleeing conflict, families reuniting after years of separation, parents seeking a better life for their children, students pursuing education, or workers filling critical workforce needs.
New Americans in Utah include:
304,918 immigrants (almost 9% of the population)
Top five countries of origin include Mexico, Peru, India, Venezuela, and China
Immigrants contribute $1.2 billion in state and local taxes and $1.9 billion in federal taxes
Over 13% of immigrants are entrepreneurs
9% of immigrants are homeowners
Source: American Immigration Council, Immigrants in Utah, Data Year: 2023
The center coordinates with key stakeholders to educate and inform them on the challenges and opportunities facing Utah’s immigrant communities while celebrating each immigrant’s contributions to the state.
Resources
New Americans in Utah
New Americans in Northern Utah
New Americans in Southern Utah
New Americans in Salt Lake County
Utah’s New Americans Task Force
The Utah Center for Global Talent and The Center for Economic Opportunity and Belonging established the New Americans Taskforce — an initiative that maximizes economic opportunities, social inclusion, and civic potential for New Americans while reinforcing an environment of belonging in Utah.
The task force convenes over 200 stakeholders statewide, representing nonprofits, businesses, industry associations, state and local government, faith-based communities, and individuals. Its purpose is to inform on opportunities related to immigration in the state and for task force members to make recommendations on issues related to integration, emphasizing workforce and economic opportunity for all Utahns.
The New Americans Task Force hosts frequent meetings throughout the state. For more information on the New Americans Task Force, read the group’s 2023-2024 progress report and recommendations.
Join the Task Force
Task Force Progress Report
Global Talent
The Utah Center for Global Talent addresses barriers and challenges faced by an immigrant workforce. It works with international, national, state, and local partners to bridge opportunities for talent pathways to Utah’s most in-demand sectors and industries, so new Americans can put their skills and talents to work in Utah.
Immigrants make up a growing part of Utah’s changing population and are more likely than U.S.-born residents to be of prime working age and active in the labor force
In Utah, immigrants comprise:
Physicians: 12.8%
Manufacturing workers: 19.4%
STEM industry workers: 13.8%
Other essential industries like service, food, warehousing, and travel: 20%
The New Americans Task Force surveyed over 6,500 internationally trained professionals and Utah newcomers to help identify ways these workers can contribute to Utah’s workforce. Over 80% of respondents held a bachelor's degree from their home country and averaged more than 11 years of experience.
The center is a Utah cohort for the Skilled Immigrant Integration Program in partnership with World Education Services.
Survey on Internationally Trained Professionals
▸ Resources Survey on Internationally Trained Professionals
Business Roundtable - New American Workforce
Global Talent Pathways - Mexico Tec de Monterrey
Global Talent Webinar - J-1 BridgeUSA & Tourism
Return to Work Program for Internationally Trained Engineering & Manufacturing - Employer Readiness & Recruitment Webinar
Building Bridges: Internationally Trained Teachers in Utah Webinar
Get License Get Ahead - Opportunities for Internationally Trained Journeyman Electricians (English)
Con Licencia, Progresas: Oportunidades para Electricistas Capacitados Internacionalmente en Utah
Business Elevated Podcast: Amy Meyer — Bridging Australian Talent and US Employers
Immigration Resources
The center provides resources and organizes webinars for Utah businesses to support their workforce needs. Topics include:
Guidance for employers on working with the existing immigrant workforce
Navigating employment-based visa pathways
Work authorization
Naturalization
And more
▸ Resources for Businesses Immigrant Workforce Integration
American Medical Association - Practicing Medicine in the U.S.
Behind Every Employer
Colorado Talent Pipeline Report
Employee Guide to Hiring Global Talent in Central Ohio
Foreign Labor Certification (FLC)
Global Detroit
Talent Beyond Boundaries
TN NAFTA Professionals Information Sheet USCIS
My Immigrant Pathway
Upwardly Global
U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services - Information for Employers and Employees
U.S. Department of Labor - H-1B and H-2A and H-2B programs
WES Career Pathways in Engineering International Students - OPT Extensions
OPT STEM Extension
Federal STEM Initiatives
▸ Resource for Individuals Foreign credentialing for internationally trained professionals
National Association of Credential Evaluation Services
Utah Department of Commerce - Division of Professional Licensing
Utah State Board of Education - Licensing for International Educators
World Education Services
English Language Learning (ELL) Programs
Arches Education Center
Ashley Valley Education Center - ESL
Asian Association of Utah - ESL and Life Skills
BYU - English Language Center
Columbus Adult Education Center & Youth Services
Community Resource Center
Davis Community Learning Center
Elevate Utah
English Connect
English Language Center of Cache Valley
English Skills Learning Center
Entrada Adult High School
ESL Directory
Give Me A Chance - ESL
Guadalupe Center
Granite Peaks - English Language Acquisition
Horizonte - English Language Learners
Language On
My Home Town - Provo
Provo City School District - Adult English Language Acquisition
Salt Lake Community College
Southern Utah University - Online Intensive English Program
Southpointe Adult High School - ELL
Southwest High School - ESL
Tooele County School District
University of Utah English Language Institute
Utah Community Action
Utah State University Moab - English Language Courses
Utah Tech University - ESL
Utah Valley Refugees
Utah Valley University - ESL
Wasatch County School District - ELL
Washington County School District - ESL
Weber Adult Education - ESL
Weber County Library System - ESOL
Weber State University
Women of the World
Career Programs for English Language Learners
Proxima Careers
Salt Lake Tech
Talent Ready Utah - Return to Work Program
Utah Transit Authority - CDL Program
Citizenship & Economic Opportunity
Over 67,000 individuals are eligible to become naturalized citizens in Utah. When new Americans naturalize, they earn higher wages, can access better jobs, and vote. They establish roots where they naturalize and become active community members through home ownership and civic engagement.
In 2023, the center received a grant from U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) to develop innovative strategies for delivering citizenship resources around the state.
Utah Citizenship Initiative
USCIS Citizenship Resources
Immigration Legal Services
Immigration legal services and assistance are critical for businesses seeking to recruit and retain international talent. They also ensure that existing immigrants can access resources to maintain work authorization, lawful permanent residency, and naturalization.
Below are some available resources:
Alliance Community Services
American Immigration Lawyers Association’s lawyer directory
American Business Immigration Coalition
BYU Community Legal Clinic
Catholic Immigration Services
Communidas Unidas/ Communities United
DACA Resources for Learners, Educators and Parents
Elevate Utah - Immigration Services
Exodus Immigration
Fragomen
Gaertner Torres, PLLC
Holy Cross Ministries
Immigrant Legal Services
International Rescue Committee
JLJ Law Group, PLLC
Lutheran Family Services-Rocky Mountain
Moab Valley Multicultural Center
My Immigrant Pathway
No More a Stranger (NOMAS)
Ogletree Deakins - Salt Lake City
Peak Immigration
Perretta Law Office
Refugee Justice League
SimpleCitizen
Timpanogos Legal Center
Trujillo Acosta Law
U.S. Department of Justice- recognized organizations and accredited representatives roster by State
U.S. Journey Immigration Services
Utah Immigration Collaborative Referral Line
Utah State Bar Association-Licensed Lawyer Referral Service
Wasatch Immigration Project
To support businesses and individuals seeking legal assistance, the center aims to establish a broader referral network with immigration legal assistance providers and to produce a legal services guide for companies and individuals in Utah seeking immigration legal assistance.
Please complete this form to have your information included as a referral source for businesses and individuals seeking immigration legal services.
Tell Us More
Are you a Utah business owner who has developed a talent pathway to recruit and retain New Americans or an immigrant building a new life to pursue their American Dream? If so, we want to hear from you.
Telling your story helps to highlight best practices in our state and demonstrate our common ground.
Stay Connected
Please contact program manager, Anju Thapaliya, at [email protected] .
60 East South Temple
Suite 300
Salt Lake City, Utah
84111-1041
Phone: (801) 538-8680
Email: [email protected]
Navigation Menu
Home
About
Accolades & Rankings
Boards
Community Data Profiles
Grants & Funding
Events
One Utah Summit
Featured Development Opportunities
In Utah
100 Companies Championing Women
Publications
Statewide Economic Development Contacts
Targeted Industries
Utah Elevated
Why Utah?
Workforce Services
Programs & Services
APEX Accelerator
Business Recruitment & Expansion
Center for International Business & Diplomacy
Center for Rural Development
Community Initiatives
Housing & Community Development
Opportunity Zones
Startup State Initiative
UPSTART
Utah Center for Global Talent
Utah Film Commission
Utah Office of Regulatory Relief
Utah Office of Tourism
Utah Small Business Credit Initiative
News
Contact
Newsletters
Social Media
Team
GOED Employee Hub
Email Newsletter
Sign up for our email newsletter to learn more about our office.
Subscribe
Translate »
