Center for International Business & Diplomacy - Governor's Office of Economic Development
Home
Center for International Business & Diplomacy
Center for International Business & Diplomacy
Utah has become a magnet for international business, attracting global brands like Adobe, Amazon, Northrop Grumman, Texas Instruments, and Microsoft. Its business-friendly environment and multilingual workforce—speaking over 130 languages and nearly 49,000 K-12 students in dual language immersion programs—continue to draw significant international investment and trade.
In 2023, Utah companies exported $17.4 billion in goods, ranking 28th in the nation for international exports and outperforming larger neighboring states, despite being 30th in population. Notably, 85% of Utah’s 3,500-plus exporters are small- and medium-sized businesses. International trade supports over 430,000 jobs in the state.
Utah’s international trade strategy is based on diplomacy and protocol, promoting business and attracting foreign investment. GOED hosts over 40 diplomatic visits annually and partners with World Trade Center Utah for Gov. Cox’s trade missions.
Learn Why Utah stands out on the global stage.
United Kingdom Memorandum of Understanding
In June 2023, Gov. Cox signed a Memorandum of Understanding with the United Kingdom Trade Minister Nigel Huddleston to boost trade and investment with the U.K. This MOU is the fifth such arrangement between the U.K. and a U.S. state and marks a milestone in the U.K. trade ties with Utah.
GOED established four working groups with the British Consulate in Los Angeles to execute the MOU. These groups focus on procurement and trade barriers, aerospace and defense, academic collaboration and workforce development, and health and life sciences.
Read About the MOU
Région Sud Letter of Intent
In June 2023, Gov. Cox signed a Letter of Intent with President Renaud Muselier of France’s Région Sud. The LOI formalizes Utah’s relationship with Région Sud, an area that shares Utah’s leadership in tourism and innovation.
As a follow-up of the LOI, President Muselier led a French delegation to Utah to increase collaboration across education, film, tourism, and business.
Read About the Letter of Intent
The Joint Utah-Mexico Partnership (JUMP) Initiative
The Joint Utah-Mexico Partnership (JUMP) is an initiative between GOED, the Mexican Consulate in Salt Lake City, and World Trade Center Utah. It focuses on four strategic areas of collaboration between Utah and Mexico — trade and business, talent and workforce, tourism and culture, and foreign language acquisition.
Gov. Cox unveiled the JUMP initiative on his 2023 trade mission to Mexico in partnership with the Mexican Ministry of Foreign Affairs .
JUMP Strategic Plan PDF
International Business
Are you looking to expand your business into new markets? GOED partners with World Trade Center Utah to oversee the state’s international business promotion activities. Visit their website to learn about upcoming trade missions, trade shows, business workshops, and grant opportunities.
60 East South Temple
Suite 300
Salt Lake City, Utah
84111-1041
Phone: (801) 538-8680
Email: [email protected]
Navigation Menu
Home
About
Accolades & Rankings
Boards
Community Data Profiles
Grants & Funding
Events
One Utah Summit
Featured Development Opportunities
In Utah
100 Companies Championing Women
Publications
Statewide Economic Development Contacts
Targeted Industries
Utah Elevated
Why Utah?
Workforce Services
Programs & Services
APEX Accelerator
Business Recruitment & Expansion
Center for International Business & Diplomacy
Center for Rural Development
Community Initiatives
Housing & Community Development
Opportunity Zones
Startup State Initiative
UPSTART
Utah Center for Global Talent
Utah Film Commission
Utah Office of Regulatory Relief
Utah Office of Tourism
Utah Small Business Credit Initiative
News
Contact
Newsletters
Social Media
Team
GOED Employee Hub
Email Newsletter
Sign up for our email newsletter to learn more about our office.
Subscribe
Translate »
