Merit Medical signs asset purchase agreement with PENTAX Medical – Utah Business
Submit a Nomination
Forward 2026
Submit a Nomination
Subscribe
Press Release
Merit Medical signs asset purchase agreement with PENTAX Medical to acquire C2 CryoBalloon technology
Merit Medical Systems, Inc. (NASDAQ: MMSI), a global leader of healthcare technology, announced it has signed a definitive asset purchase agreement with Pentax of America, Inc., a subsidiary of PENTAX® Medical, Inc., to acquire the C2 CryoBalloon™ device and related technology.
By Merit Medical and PENTAX Medical
// Oct 22, 2025
Share
SOUTH JORDAN, Utah — Merit Medical Systems, Inc. (NASDAQ: MMSI), a global leader of healthcare technology, announced it has signed a definitive asset purchase agreement with Pentax of America, Inc., a subsidiary of PENTAX® Medical, Inc., to acquire the C2 CryoBalloon™ device and related technology. The closing of the proposed transaction is expected to occur during the fourth quarter of 2025, subject to the receipt or waiver (in accordance with the provisions of the asset purchase agreement) of certain customary closing conditions.
“The proposed acquisition reflects Merit’s commitment to advancing minimally invasive solutions for gastrointestinal disorders. We’re excited to welcome new team members and expand our portfolio, empowering physicians to improve patient outcomes worldwide,” said Martha G. Aronson, Merit’s President and CEO.
The proposed acquisition is intended to strengthen Merit’s position in the gastroenterology market and provide opportunities to treat more patients suffering from the effects of chronic gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD) and other gastrointestinal tissue disorders. The C2 CryoBalloon delivers controlled freezing treatments to drive targeted ablation and precise destruction of unwanted soft tissue.
A common digestive disorder, GERD occurs when the lower esophageal sphincter does not tighten correctly, allowing acid from the stomach to enter the esophagus. When this occurs chronically, it can result in serious health conditions, such as esophageal damage, Barrett’s esophagus, and cancer. The C2 CryoBalloon treats Barrett’s esophagus, as well as a less-common vascular disorder, gastric antral vascular ectasia (GAVE) syndrome, by freezing and eliminating abnormal cells while still maintaining the integrity of surrounding tissue structures.
“We believe this purchase will help our team optimize commercial activities in the multibillion-dollar gastroenterology market and provide physicians with more options to help care for their patients,” said Fred P. Lampropoulos, Merit’s Chairman of the Board.
“C2 technology has been an exciting part of PENTAX Medical’s journey since 2017. The C2 CryoBalloon holds promise across a range of therapeutic applications. We are pleased to announce that Merit will be the new home for C2, unlocking its potential,” stated Dominique Vincent, President of PENTAX Medical. “With its expanding footprint in upper gastrointestinal treatments and deep expertise in the field, Merit is ideally positioned to accelerate C2’s growth, making it available to even more patients and clinicians worldwide.”
Merit intends to integrate the C2 CryoBalloon business into its Endoscopy portfolio, complementing its existing products and customer base.
Over the next few months, Merit plans to transfer product manufacturing to its facility in South Jordan, Utah. Merit anticipates that some of the PENTAX employees currently engaged in the C2 CryoBalloon business will be joining Merit, bringing their knowledge and expertise to the team.
Financial Summary
Merit proposes to acquire the C2 CryoBalloon assets from Pentax of America, Inc. for total purchase consideration of $22 million, consisting of a $19 million cash payment at closing and potential contingent payments of up to $3 million payable upon meeting certain milestones. The acquired assets are projected to contribute revenue, from a projected closing date of November 1, 2025 through December 31, 2025, of approximately $1 million and are projected, during the same period of time, to dilute Merit’s previously forecasted non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP earnings per share, by approximately $0.4 million and $0.01, respectively. The acquisition is projected to be dilutive to Merit’s full-year 2025 GAAP net income and GAAP earnings per share by approximately $0.5 million and $0.01, respectively.
The proposed acquisition is projected to contribute revenue in the range of approximately $6 million to $8 million for the twelve months ending December 31, 2026, and to be dilutive to Merit’s non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP earnings per share in the range of approximately $1 million to $2 million, or $0.02 - $0.03 per share, respectively, and to be accretive thereafter. The proposed acquisition is projected to be dilutive to Merit’s GAAP net income and GAAP earnings per share in the range of approximately $2 million to $3 million, or $0.03 - $0.05 per share, respectively.
Non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP earnings per share are non-GAAP financial measures. A quantitative reconciliation of the impacts on such financial measures as set forth above to the impacts on comparable GAAP financial measures is not available without unreasonable effort.
Advisors
JP Morgan Chase & Co. acted as financial advisor to PENTAX Medical. Parr Brown Gee & Loveless served as legal advisor to Merit. Morrison & Foerster LLP served as legal advisor to PENTAX Medical.
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
Merit generally does not provide guidance for GAAP reported financial measures (other than revenue) or a reconciliation of forward-looking non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP reported financial measures (other than revenue) because Merit is unable to predict with reasonable certainty the financial impact of various items which could impact Merit’s future financial results, such as expenses attributable to acquisitions or other extraordinary transactions, non-cash expenses related to amortization or write-off of previously acquired tangible and intangible assets, certain employee termination benefits, performance-based stock compensation expenses, expenses resulting from non-ordinary course litigation or administrative proceedings and resulting settlements, governmental proceedings, and changes in governmental or industry regulations. These items are uncertain, depend on various factors, and could have a material impact on GAAP reported results for the guidance period. For the same reasons, Merit is unable to address the significance of the unavailable information, which could be material to future results. Specifically, Merit is not, without unreasonable effort, able to reliably predict the impact of these items and Merit believes inclusion of a reconciliation of these forward-looking non-GAAP measures to their GAAP counterparts could be confusing to investors or cause undue reliance. Only information on the impacts to such measures from the proposed acquisition is being included in this release, a reconciliation of the impacts on such financial measures to the impacts on their GAAP counterparts is not available without unreasonable effort.
ABOUT MERIT MEDICAL
Founded in 1987, Merit Medical Systems, Inc. is engaged in the development, manufacture, and distribution of proprietary medical devices used in interventional, diagnostic, and therapeutic procedures, particularly in cardiology, radiology, oncology, critical care, and endoscopy. Merit serves customers worldwide with a domestic and international sales force and clinical support team totaling more than 800 individuals. Merit employs approximately 7,400 people worldwide.
ABOUT PENTAX MEDICAL
PENTAX Medical, a division of the HOYA Group, is a global player in flexible, reusable endoscopy solutions. The company develops, manufactures, distributes, and services endoscopic equipment worldwide. PENTAX Medical is committed to delivering intuitive, flexible endoscopy solutions that empower healthcare professionals to provide outstanding care.
Its mission is to maintain product excellence while collaborating closely with clinical partners to understand and address their daily challenges, workflows, and goals. At the core of this mission is a commitment to reliability and high-quality imaging—fundamental requirements for clinical performance. Building on this foundation, PENTAX Medical delivers solutions that integrate seamlessly into clinical practice, supported by ergonomic and ease-of-use innovations, practical clinical education, and personalized, attentive customer support.
For more information, please visit: ( https://www.pentaxmedical.com ).
ABOUT HOYA
HOYA Corporation, founded in Tokyo in 1941, is a global leader in healthcare and technology innovation. HOYA provides advanced products for life care, including eyeglass lenses, intraocular lenses, and medical endoscopes, as well as high-precision components that support today`s information society, such as mask blanks for semiconductor manufacturing, glass substrates for hard disk drives, and optical components for imaging systems. With over 150 offices worldwide and a team of approximately 38,000 professionals, HOYA is committed to advancing technologies that contribute to a more sustainable future. For more details, please visit: ( https://www.hoya.com/en/ ).
Subscribe
Highlighting the ideas, innovations and people behind Utah's business success stories.
Explore
Latest
About
Industry
Leadership
Contribute
Events
Nominate
Pitch A Story
Newsletter
Utah stories you won't find anywhere else.
Subscribe
Copyright © 2026 Utah Business. All Rights Reserved
About Us
Advertise
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
Cookie Settings
