About ARUP Laboratories | ARUP Laboratories
Skip to main content
News
Careers
Contact Us
|
Connect Sign In
News
Careers
Contact Us
Testing
Test Directory
Test Updates
Clinical Decision Support | ARUP Consult ®
Resources
Featured Test Categories
Search Our Test Directory
Search
Search our extensive Laboratory Test Directory to find test codes, ordering recommendations, specimen stability information, Test Fact Sheets, and more.
Changes and New Tests Explore the most recent updates to our Laboratory Test Directory in one convenient location. Review important information about upcoming or current Hotlines, CPT code changes, and new tests. Test Resources Find general guidance on ARUP specimen preparation and handling, specimen transportation, test turnaround times, critical alerts, billing practices, patient forms, and more.
Changes and New Tests Explore the most recent updates to our Laboratory Test Directory in one convenient location. Review important information about upcoming or current Hotlines, CPT code changes, and new tests.
CPT Code Updates Find information about our annual and biweekly updates to CPT codes. Test Resources Find general guidance on ARUP specimen preparation and handling, specimen transportation, test turnaround times, critical alerts, billing practices, patient forms, and more. Performed/Reported Find information about updates to the Performed schedule and the Reported turnaround time.
ARUP Consult ® Our clinical decision support resource, ARUP Consult, empowers clinicians with robust information, algorithms, and tools for informed patient care decisions.
Choose the Right Test Testing Algorithms Test Fact Sheets
Test Resources Find specimen instructions, test turnaround times, patient forms, test codes, and more.
Specimen Handling
CPT Codes
Z-Codes
LOINC Codes
Test Turnaround Time and Contingency Plan
Critical Values and Urgent Notifications
View All Test Resources
Comprehensive Diagnostic Solutions Discover the benefits of our testing for each featured test category. Explore highlighted updates, articles, video spotlights, and more.
This section highlights our specialized offerings and is separate from our Laboratory Test Directory.
Neurology
Genetics
Hematopathology
Infectious Disease
View All
Search the Laboratory Test Directory
Clinical Decision Support | ARUP Consult ®
Services
Laboratory Consulting Services
Drug and Clinical Research Services
Research and Innovation
ARUP Healthcare Advisory Services Streamline operations and maximize cost-effectiveness with consultative solutions customized for your organization. Our consultants bring experience and analytics to enhance the value of your lab.
Laboratory Stewardship
Laboratory Operations
Outreach Planning
Data and Analytics
View All Advisory Services
For Researchers: Clinical Research Services Our team of experienced project managers is available to assist you in companion diagnostic development, clinical trial studies, academic research, and expert pathology review.
Clinical and Academic Research Our Clinical Trials group supports a variety of research efforts, including academic research initiatives, and serves clients from central laboratories, clinical research organizations (CROs), in vitro device (IVD) manufacturers, and more. Discover all of our services. Pharmaceutical Services ARUP offers companion diagnostics and central pathology review services as part of our comprehensive pharmaceutical services. Explore our capabilities and more.
View All Clinical Research Services
ARUP Institute for Research and Innovation in Diagnostic and Precision Medicine™ We accelerate the development and adoption of cutting-edge diagnostic and prognostic technologies advancing patient care through groundbreaking science and engineering. The Sherrie Perkins Research and Innovation Collaboration Grant The Sherrie Perkins Research and Innovation Collaboration Grant funds cutting-edge research in laboratory medicine.
Education Center
Continuing Education
ARUP Expert Insights
Education Events
MLS Faculty and Student Resource Center
Free Continuing Education Credits ARUP provides free CME, P.A.C.E. ® , and Florida credits for laboratory professionals.
CME Credit
P.A.C.E. ® Credit
Florida Credit
View All Courses
Expert-Led Spotlight Video Series Take your learning to the next level with these short lectures. Videos are typically less than 10 minutes and cover a variety of topics such as test utilization, testing technologies, new test explanations, and more.
Podcast Episodes Stay up to date on trending laboratory medicine topics with our LabMind podcast. Research Publications Explore our experts’ most recent publications in peer-reviewed sources. Posters and Presentations Request a poster presentation from a recent conference or event.
Live Webinars Attend our live webinars for insightful, interactive conversations around the latest trends and advancements in laboratory medicine.
Upcoming Regional Conferences Join our experts at upcoming educational conferences and ARUP-sponsored events. Program agendas, registration information, event locations, and more can be found here. Request an ARUP Speaker Bring our experts directly to your facility with our diverse educational offerings. Choose from a variety of topics, delivered in person or via webinar.
Access Free Online Resources Enhance your medical laboratory science (MLS) program with our free online resource center. Integrate these curated resources into your curriculum to enrich valuable student-faculty engagement.
About
Contact Us
About Us
Careers
News
Employee Resources
Compliance
Contact Us Contact our support team any time through our 24/7 phone assistance, live chat options, or directly via email. Media Coverage and Inquiries Contact an ARUP media specialist about photos, press releases, interviews, quotes, and more.
Sales and Account Inquiries Request to speak to your local account executive or to set up a new account with ARUP. Healthcare Advisory Services Request Contact an ARUP healthcare consultant to learn more about how you can optimize your laboratory operations, generate more revenue, and improve patient care.
About Us ARUP Laboratories is a national, academic, and nonprofit reference laboratory at the forefront of diagnostic medicine. With more than 40 years of experience supporting clients through unparalleled quality and service, our goal is to continually drive positive change for healthcare systems and their patients. Learn More
Our Experts Explore the breadth and depth of expertise available from ARUP’s 150+ medical directors, genetic counselors, pathologists, specialty scientists, and consultants, most of whom are on-site.
Explore Our Culture ARUP offers an enriching work environment with exceptional benefits, flexible hours, and an inclusive company culture that fosters pride among employees.
Start Your Journey With ARUP Explore exciting career opportunities across a variety of fields and experience levels. Open positions are posted in one convenient location so you can easily find your perfect fit.
Browse All Open Positions
Explore the ARUP Newsroom Stay informed about the latest from ARUP. Explore press releases, news articles, our Magnify publication, and more.
Press Releases
Recent Articles
Media Resources
Magnify Magazine
Employee Benefits ARUP employees can review their employee benefits, including medical coverage and open enrollment information, long-term absence arrangements, employee assistance programs, and other resources.
Wellness Center Employees can access a team of dedicated wellness coaches for private or group classes, nutrition information, recovery activities, and more. Family Health Clinic Employees and their dependents can access free primary care, occupational healthcare, immunization, mental health resources, and more at the Family Health Clinic.
Learning Management Systems Login
Licensure and Accreditations ARUP is a College of American Pathologists (CAP)-, Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments (CLIA)-, and International Organization for Standardization (ISO) 15189-accredited laboratory. Additionally, ARUP meets all regulations for labeling non-FDA approved test methods offered by ARUP. Medicare Coverage Information Learn about the restrictions around Medicare billing and reimbursement before you order an ARUP test.
Public Health Reporting Learn about ARUP's policy regarding public health reporting and how we stay in compliance with state regulations. Privacy and HIPAA Review our policies and practices for HIPAA and GDPR compliance. ARUP Compliance Policy
Breadcrumb
Home
About ARUP Laboratories
About ARUP Laboratories
ARUP Laboratories is a leading national academic reference laboratory and a nonprofit enterprise of the University of Utah and its Department of Pathology.
We are a CAP-, ISO 15189-, and CLIA-certified diagnostic laboratory with more than 40 years of experience supporting hospital and health system clients with unparalleled quality and service. Beyond offering quality testing, our goals include innovating, improving continuously, changing the future of laboratory medicine, and supporting our clients’ success in patient care while helping community health systems remain cost-effective.
ARUP Laboratories Fact Sheet
1 Location
3,000 +
Tests and Test Combinations
150 +
Academic Experts and Consultants
99 %
Testing Performed On-Site
170,000
Continuing Education Credits Awarded Annually
Our Experts
Our experts are passionate about improving diagnostic medicine. We have more than 150 nationally and internationally recognized pathologists, subspecialty-qualified clinicians, board-certified clinical scientists, clinical variant scientists, and genetic counselors available for consultation, test result interpretation, and collaboration with clients. Most of our experts are on-site and actively contribute to peer-reviewed research, industry research, and test development.
Medical Experts Genetic Counselors Research and Innovation Team
Proven Partner
ARUP provides personalized services and client-specific reports to ensure your patients receive the highest quality care.
Our client portal, ARUP Connect™ , offers sophisticated, real-time tracking for shipments, and regional transportation specialists provide custom solutions when weather-related situations or emergencies arise.
Our carefully vetted courier network receives comprehensive training and certification annually.
Our attentive Client Services agents are available 24/7/365 to answer your questions and create solutions with care.
ARUP Healthcare Advisory Services provides a wide range of custom laboratory consultative services to improve laboratory operations through workflow efficiencies, laboratory system alignment engagements, utilization and stewardship programs, outreach growth and development plans, and cost-per-test savings initiatives. Our healthcare consultants provide tailored solutions to help laboratories demonstrate their long-term value to the health system through custom business reports, sendout dashboards, and in-source testing to keep care close to the patient.
Explore Our Case Studies
Commitment to Quality
ARUP’s robust quality management system monitors more than 900 performance indicators throughout various departments each month to ensure the efficacy of our assays, as well as pre- and post-analytical aspects of testing. We combine data with customer needs assessments to prioritize improvement initiatives in response to our clients’ unique needs. Our Quality Systems and Support department can assist with the development of your own quality program. We openly share our process and procedure documents, and we’re available to help interpret regulatory and accreditation requirements.
Compliance Information Quality Management Systems Consulting
Live Chat
About
About ARUP Laboratories
Careers
News
Press Releases
Testing
Laboratory Test Directory
Choose the Right Test
Resources
Education Center
Continuing Education
Expert Videos
Podcast Episodes
Events
Contact Us
24/7 Phone Support
Sales Inquiries
By continuing to browse our website, you agree to the use of cookies in accordance with our Privacy Policy . Agree
&copy; 2026 ARUP Laboratories. All Rights Reserved.
