Intergalactic | Thermal Management Systems for Defense Aerospace, Civil Aviation & Space Contact us
Home
Industries
Solutions
GS1 SERIES /
THERMAL MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS
GS1-SX STARSCREAM
GS1-MC MCFLY
GS1-FK FALKOR
GS1-SD STARDUST
GS1-GZ GOZER
Suppliers
Commslink
IG LI TW
Terms & Conditions
COMPANY CONTACT CAREERS
© 2026 Intergalactic
Menu
An Aerospace Company
Menu
Home
Industries
Solutions
Suppliers
Commslink
IG LI TW
Company Contact CAREERS
Terms & Conditions © 2026 Intergalactic
Heat Heat is no Longer a barrier barrier
Intergalactic is now part of Unison, a GE Aerospace company
WELCOME TO INTERGALACTIC
For decades, innovation in aerospace has been limited by old methods of thermal management that just can’t keep up. Those days are over. This is the era of further, faster and cooler. Welcome to the new age of aerospace technology.
Incremental Doesn’t Fly Anymore.
The zero-risk mentality of yesterday can’t fuel the zero-boundaries breakthroughs of tomorrow. Across every aerospace sector, an innovation imperative is empowering the new guard and leaving the incrementalists in the afterburn.
We are here to enable bold ambition, whether it’s commercializing supersonic flight, pioneering interplanetary travel, or whatever else is on your zero-boundaries agenda.
Our Solutions
Less Less Weight. MORE COOL. COOL.
At one-third the size and weight, with three times the cooling capacity of legacy thermal management equipment, it’s clear that our X3 Series of thermal management systems are not here to play incremental games.
Our solutions
Applic ations
Civil
Our thermal management solutions can cool any aspect of any commercial aircraft. Our core systems can be modified for most needs, or we can build a custom solution for any thermal challenge, including supersonics and electric flight.
Learn More
Defense and Security
0 1 ::
Defense and Security
We have a long history in defense, and our systems are sole-sourced on multiple tier-one defense platforms. Our thermal management solutions unlock innovation throughout the entire supply chain and enable our partners to build next-generation airborne defense and security platforms.
Learn More
Space
0 2 ::
Space
The space race is heating up, and it’s our job to keep it from overheating. Our systems, subsystems, and parts are built to handle the most demanding conditions, including the intense vibrations and heat extremes of space travel.
Learn More
Land and Sea
0 3 ::
Land and Sea
Everything we build is aerospace-rated, but our systems are ideal for mitigating heat on land and sea as well. Bring us your most demanding thermal management need and we’ll solve it with a targeted solution.
Learn More
0 4 ::
0 1 :: Civil
0 2 :: Defense and Security
0 3 :: Space
0 4 :: Land and Sea
/ INTRO
The future is now
3 X
More Efficient
1 / 3
The Size and Weight
Boxes Checked
Sole-Sourced on Major Platforms
AS9100 Certified
100% American Made
Field Tested at Mach 1, 27 G’s of force, and 14,000 PSI
CMMC Cybersecurity Compliant
Flight-Tested TRL 9 Products
Could your moonshot be any cooler?
Collaborative engineering is our jam. How about we connect your people and our people to talk shop?
Schedule a demo
Meet with our engineers and system designers. No obligations. No slick sales people.
Let's Talk
Commslink
News Room
More Links
Supplier QA Reqs
AS9100 certification
Careers
Social Media
Instagram
Linkedin
Twitter
Terms & Conditions
© 2026 Intergalactic
