Apa Sherpa Foundation | Changing Lives in Nepal | Donate Today
Home
Who We Are
Our Mission
Apa’s Bio
Board
Our Work
Teachers
Meals
Fundraisers
Media
Gallery
Testimonials
Events
Get In Touch
Donate
Your browser does not support the video tag.
A Chance for a Better Life
ASF believes everyone deserves access to education and basic necessities
“WITHOUT EDUCATION WE HAVE NO CHOICE.”
Apa Sherpa
Founder, Apa Sherpa Foundation
Apa Sherpa was born in poverty and rose to become the greatest climber in the history of Mount Everest. Apa struggled greatly to obtain a modest education in his youth and worked diligently to provide for his family amidst difficult economic circumstances. Today, he endeavors to provide the opportunities he never had to the next generation, starting from his home village in Nepal.
GETTING A GOOD EDUCATION IN NEPAL IS AN UPHILL BATTLE
For several decades, the country has endured challenges born of political instability, natural disasters, and widespread poverty. Opportunities for education are extremely hard to come by due to underfunded schools, lack of resources, and treacherous terrain.
HOW ASF HELPS
Since 2010, we have relentlessly striven to provide a positive path for the people of Nepal
Apa Sherpa Foundation is a non-profit organization on a mission to support disadvantaged individuals in Nepal. We provide for their basic necessities of food, shelter, clothing, and schooling, empowering them to improve their quality of life and reach their potential.
Explore Our Work
&times;
Everest Basecamp Trek with Apa Sherpa! April 23-May 13 2025
Click here for more info
EVERY CONTRIBUTION MAKES A DIFFERENCE
Your gracious support can rescue Nepalese children from deplorable living conditions and give them the gift of education and a better, brighter future.
Donate Now
Apa Sherpa Foundation
PO Box 711116
Salt Lake City , UT 84171
Phone: 801-735-9403
&copy;2026 Apa Sherpa Foundation. All Rights Reserved.
Apa Sherpa Foundation is a nonprofit corporation exempt from federal income tax under Section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code
Privacy Policy
Website by Pronto
