Great Salt Lake | Forestry, Fire & State Lands Website
Great Salt Lake
Home &rarr;
State Lands &rarr;
Sovereign Lands &rarr;
Great Salt Lake
Quick Links
Great Salt Lake Management Plan
Great Salt Lake Committees
Leases & Permits
The Division of Forestry, Fire & State Lands (FFSL) has direct management jurisdiction over lands below the Great Salt Lake meander line and all of Fremont Island. However, FFSL recognizes the importance of the Great Salt Lake ecosystem, including resource values and uses outside of the meander line that affects or are affected by actions on sovereign lands. Accordingly, FFSL considers it imperative that the management of Great Salt Lake include coordination in planning and actions by other agencies with jurisdictional responsibility for these resources.
Great Salt Lake is a unique and complex ecosystem of regional and hemispherical importance. Sustainable use of Great Salt Lake’s natural resources will ensure that the ecological health (e.g., water quality, shoreline condition, salinity, aquatic organisms, wildlife, wetlands), scenic attributes, extractive industries (e.g., minerals, brine shrimp, microorganisms), and recreation opportunities (e.g., bird watching, hunting, sailing) will be maintained into the future. FFSL coordinates with other states, federal, and local entities to ensure that the management of these resources will provide lasting benefits to the Public Trust. Great Salt Lake is managed by FFSL under the Great Salt Lake Comprehensive Management and Mineral Leasing Plans.
Great Salt Lake Website
Mineral Information
Great Salt Lake Comprehensive Management Plan
We’re updating the Great Salt Lake Comprehensive Management Plan and Great Salt Lake Mineral Leasing Plan click here to learn more about the updated management and leasing plans !
In 2013, in collaboration with many partners and stakeholders, the Utah Division of Forestry, Fire and State Lands (FFSL) updated both the Great Salt Lake Comprehensive Management Plan, Elevation Matrix, and Great Salt Lake Mineral Leasing Plan. These plans are unique in that they guide FFSL in its responsibility to manage sovereign land resources. FFSL has direct jurisdictional management responsibilities over all lands below the lake’s meander line and over Fremont Island. It is imperative that these plans are done in coordination with other agencies with jurisdictional responsibilities for these resources. These plans will ensure that the ecological health, scenic attributes, extractive industries, and recreation opportunities will be maintained now and into the future and provide lasting benefits to the public trust. Conditions on Great Salt Lake and throughout its watershed have changed considerably since 2013, as have the available data and science. As such, it is now time to update both plans.
Great Salt Lake CMP
Elevation Matrix
Mineral Leasing Plan
GSL Committees
Protecting the Great Salt Lake is a collaborative effort involving many stakeholders. These include state, federal and local government agencies, non-profit organizations, academic institutions, industry representatives, and the public. The contributions of several councils and committees further support this collaborative work.
For a list of all agencies and partners involved in the work on Great Salt Lake, visit the greatsaltlake.utah.gov .
Great Salt Lake Advisory Council Through adoption of House Bill 343 during the 2010 general session of the Utah Legislature, the Great Salt Lake Advisory Council was created to advise on the sustainable use, protection, and development of the Great Salt Lake.
GSLAC Website
For more information regard the Great Salt Lake Advisory Council please visit their website.
Great Salt Lake Salinity Advisory Committtee Goal
The goal of the Great Salt Lake Salinity Advisory Committee is to guide the process of developing and, in the end, providing recommendations to the Utah Division of Forestry, Fire and State Lands and the Utah Division of Water Quality on the long-term management of the salinity of GSL.
Purpose
FFSL and UDWQ are responsible for interpreting salinity data representative of the South (Gilbert Bay) and North (Gunnison Bay) Arms of GSL and making appropriate changes to Union Pacific Railroad’s GSL Causeway opening and berm geometry, if required, that maximize the benefits of GSL in accordance with the public trust doctrine and the Utah Water Quality Act.
At a minimum, FFSL and UDWQ must receive recommendations from the SAC regarding the need and measure of potential FFSL modifications of the UPRR causeway opening, berm, or channel.
Great Salt Lake Organizational Structures
Great Salt Lake Salinity Advisory Committee Charter- Adopted October 2024
2023 Electronic Meeting Resolution
Great Salt Lake Salinity Advisory Committee Members List
Great Salt Lake Salinity Advisory Committee Meeting Summaries
Studies
Round Robin of Methods to Estimate the Salinity of Great Salt Lake Waters
This study was completed by the Salinity Advisory Committee to compare results from various field and laboratory analytical methods used to estimate the density, salinity, and major ions of GSL waters. This memorandum summarizes the methods and results from the round-robin, available density and salinity datasets, and the SAC’s recommendations for the next steps.
Standard Operating Procedure – Great Salt Lake Water Density Measurement and Salinity Calculation
The Salinity Advisory Committee developed and recommends the use of this Standard Operating Procedure for water density measurement and salinity calculations for Great Salt Lake waters.
Rubric for Salinity Objectives
Salinity Matrix
The 2013 Great Salt Lake Comprehensive Management Plan (UDNR 2013) includes a lake water level matrix that illustrates the benefit or impact of different lake water levels (y-axis) on the numerous resources and uses of GSL (x-axis). The SAC decided to develop a similar matrix for salinity to serve as a companion to the GSL water level matrix. The GSL Salinity Matrix will provide lake users, researchers, managers, and regulators with a practical means to interpret salinity data and evaluate their significance for GSL. The SAC intends for this matrix to be a starting point. It is intended to be a tool that is useful today but will continue to be improved into tomorrow.
Salinity Matrix – detailed
Salinity Matrix – Summary
Influence of Salinity on the Resources and Uses of Great Salt Lake
Great Salt Lake Technical Team Mission
To provide guidance and recommendations in the monitoring, management and research efforts of the Great Salt Lake ecosystem and to provide a forum for the interchange of information on ideas, projects, and programs that affect the activities and natural systems of the Great Salt Lake.
Authority
Statute: Utah Code Annotated 65A-10-8(11)
Requirements of the Great Salt Lake Technical Team (from the GSL Comprehensive Management Plan)
Coordinate and provide oversight of data-gathering activities.
Ensure the collected data is analyzed and shared with all research and monitoring participants.
Make data available to the public.
Meet at least twice annually.
Be self-governing.
Great Salt Lake Technical Team Members
Great Salt Lake Technical Team Meeting Dates
Great Salt Lake Research Grants
Leases & Permits
For Leases and Permits related to activities on Great Salt Lake, please reach out to Angela Gong at 385-226-3333 or by email at [email protected] , or visit our Leases & Permits page.
Follow us online
1594 W. North Temple, Suite 3520
Salt Lake City, Utah 84114
Hours: Monday - Friday, 8:00 am - 5:00 pm
Phone: 801-538-5418
Navigation Menu
Home
Forestry
Landowner & Community Assistance
Forestry Legacy
Forest Stewardship
Urban & Community Forestry
Forest Management
Forest Health
Forest Business & Wood Products
Fire
Fire Prevention & Preparedness
Fire Sense
Wildfire Risk
Community Preparedness
Fire Business
Cooperative Wildfire System
Safety & Training
Wildland Fire Operations Center
Wildland Fire Resources
Become a Wildand Firefighter
Burn Permits
State Lands
Sovereign Lands
Bear Lake
Bear River
Great Salt Lake
Jordan River
Utah Lake
Colorado River
Green River
Other State Lands
Minerals
Public Notices
Leases & Permits
GIS
Central Index Map
News
Funding
Funding Opportunities
Urban Forestry Grants
Post-Fire Rehabilitation Funding
Utah Fire Department Assistance Grants
LSR Grants
CWDG Funding
WUIPPM Funding
Great Salt Lake Research Grant
Contacts
Staff Directory
GRAMA
Website Privacy Notice
