Cotopaxi - Gear For Good | Free shipping on orders $99+ Skip to content My Cart
Your cart is empty
Shop Packs & Gear
Shop Women's
Shop Men's
–
+
{ discount.title }
{property.value}
{ cart.item_count } Items
{ cart.total_price | money Currency.currentCurrency }
You're saving { cart.total_discount | money Currency.currentCurrency }
Shipping & taxes calculated at checkout
Donate today and help end extreme poverty in our lifetime. See Details
Global Uprising, PBC dba Cotopaxi ("Cotopaxi") distributes 100% of the monetary donations that it receives from its customers to the Cotopaxi Foundation on a monthly basis.
What is the Cotopaxi Foundation?
The Cotopaxi Foundation is a Utah-based private 501c3 nonprofit organization.
Giving is core to the Cotopaxi model. The foundation is the next step in terms of doing more good. 1% of our annual revenue goes to the Cotopaxi Foundation, which aims to boost our grantmaking, democratize our impact, and help us make a bigger difference in the communities we touch.
Every time you purchase one of our products, you’re contributing to the Cotopaxi Foundation. But we encourage you to be part of Doing Good by giving directly to the foundation. However you support our efforts, your contribution is making a difference.
We are not able to provide tax deductible receipts for our customers at this time. Cotopaxi is exploring how to modify this process in the future, and will post updates here on our website.
Add Route shipping protection for $1.15. See Details
Guaranteed for Good™
Easy U.S. Returns & Exchanges
Lifetime Warranty + Repairs
Guaranteed for Good™
Truly sustainable design includes a backup plan. If there's a problem with your gear, we'll happily repair it, replace it, credit your return, or reward you for trading it in.
Free Standard Shipping On Orders $99+
Easy U.S. Returns & Exchanges
We provide easy returns and exchanges for US* orders within 30 days of purchase. Items purchased in November and December can be returned or exchanged until January 31st of the following year.
Exchanges and refunds for store credit are free. For refunds back to the original payment method, we deduct a $5 restocking fee.
When preparing your return, please ensure tags are still intact and that items are unworn and unwashed. Items marked as “Final Sale” are not eligible to be returned.
Need to return an item? Visit https://returns.cotopaxi.com
*Excludes Puerto Rico
HOLIDAY GIFT WITH PURCHASE
It’s not too late to save on gifts for the holidays. Get free gifts when you spend $100 or more.
To Redeem:
Offer valid while supplies last. Cannot be combined with other offers or discounts. Not valid on event tickets, gift cards, sale items, or previous orders. Color selection for items in the Del Día Gift Bundle will be chosen at random. Both the Quito Beanie Gift Bundle and the Allpa Overland Gift Bundle are comprised of the 750ml Agua Water Bottle and the Graphite/Fiery Red Quito Pom Beanie—color requests will not be taken. Promotional items cannot be exchanged. Cannot be applied to previous orders. If you return purchased items, return your gift-with-purchase or you will be charged for your gift-with-purchase.
Packs & Bags
Women's
Men's
Bestsellers
With all new gear and apparel to help lighten the load.
Shop Pack to Campus
With all new gear and apparel to help lighten the load.
Shop Pack To Campus
Shop By Category
New Arrivals
Packs & Gear
Women's
Men's
tag">
New Coraza luggage is here — durable, repairable, and made with recycled materials.
SHOP THE NEW ROLLER
tag">
New Coraza luggage is here — durable, repairable, and made with recycled materials.
SHOP NOW
Gear For Good
The 2025 Cotopaxi Foundation Annual Report
Check it out
Give Good Gear More Life
Shop responsibly with pre-loved gear
Explore
The 2025 Impact Report
Read Now
What Our Customers are Saying
US Site
Australia
Canada
European Union
Japan
New Zealand
United Kingdom
Shop
Shop Featured
Women's
Men's
Packs
Gift Card
Sale
Try Our Pack Guide
*Current Promotions
Retail Locations
Retail Locations Our Stores
Authorized Retailers
Gear for Good ®
Gear for Good ® About Us
Sustainable by Design
Our Impact
Guaranteed for Good™
B Corp Certified
Do Good Ambassadors
Careers
Sales
Sales Corporate & Group Sales
Wholesale
Support
Support My Account
Help Center
Returns & Exchanges
Warranty & Repairs
Trade-in
Shipping
Facebook
Instagram
TikTok
YouTube
Accessibility
© 2026 Global Uprising PBC dba Cotopaxi | Site Map | Privacy | Data Request | DNSMPI | Cookies Declaration | Terms of Service | Support M–F 9–5 MDT | Refund policy
Chat with us
Success!
You're now subscribed.
You can change your email preferences at any time by selecting 'unsubscribe' in any email you receive.
Continue Shopping
Secure your shipment and easily
resolve order issues with one tap.
Protect orders from loss,
damage, or theft.
Backed by SEG Insurance
Ltd. through Route.
Refunds or reorders
in just a few clicks.
This optional protection is offered to you solely in order to effectuate the shipment of your package(s). Route is the named assured on the Route Policy of which your shipment will be protected on. The cost of adding your shipment to the Route Policy includes compensation paid to Safe Order Solutions, LLC (a licensed insurance agency affiliate of Route), for making this protection available.
Route App © 2019 Route App
User Privacy
User Terms of Use
Backed by SEG Insurance ltd.
