BambooHR: The Complete HR Software for People, Payroll & Benefits
From HR platform to HR partner
with Bamboo AI™
Meet the intelligence layer built into BambooHR® that handles work for you so you can put your people first.
Hiring & Onboarding
hiring-onboarding
HR Data & Reporting
hr-data-reporting
Payroll & Time
payroll-time
Benefits Administration
benefits-administration
Employee Experience
employee-experience
Performance Management
performance-management
Compensation
compensation
Get My Free Demo
Image source
bamboo-hero-ai-desktop
Image source tablet
bamboo-hero-ai-desktop
Image source mobile
bamboo-hero-ai-desktop
Style
bg-image-dark-green-rays-hero-webp
See why 30,000 businesses love working with BambooHR ®
BambooHR announcements
Put Your People Data to Work with Connected Intelligence
Bamboo AI™ doesn't just suggest the next step—it completes routine work and brings you in when human judgment matters.
Learn More
Build a Culture Where People Feel Valued
Recognize great work, reward meaningful contributions, and reinforce core values — all within BambooHR.
Learn More
Make Smarter Workforce Decisions with Advanced Insights
Our new Custom Dashboards and HR Benchmarks give you the trends and context to drive more strategic people decisions.
Learn More
Meet Bamboo AI™
A built-in intelligence layer that understands your business, uncovers insights, guides better decisions, and gets work done.
Learn About Bamboo AI
style
bg gradient dark green
Combine all your HR systems into one platform
Payroll, Time & Benefits
Track hours and manage multi-rate pay, simplify time off requests, streamline benefits enrollment, and run payroll all from a single platform. No more data double entry or manual approval processes—just easy, accurate payroll for you and your employees.
Get a Demo Learn More
Hiring & Onboarding
Find, hire, and onboard the best talent quickly. With the powerful BambooHR applicant tracking system and proactive onboarding tasks, you can create a compelling candidate experience and better first days for new hires.
Get a Demo Learn More
HR Data & Reporting
Enjoy your one-stop shop for data management, with instant, pre-built reports, automated workflows, an AI-powered HR assistant, and in-depth analytics to get the answers you need, fast.
Get a Demo Learn More
Employee Experience & Performance
Build the kind of workplace where your people know you’re invested in their happiness and development. Get the tools you need to gather feedback, strengthen employee satisfaction, and grow your people.
Get a Demo Learn More
Compensation
Take the lead on compensation strategy with access to trusted benchmarking data and advanced planning tools. Create salary bands, streamline approvals, communicate total rewards, and ensure fair pay—all within one easy-to-use platform.
Get a Demo Learn More
BambooHR customers save hundreds of hours and reduce HR costs by 40%
Saved $70,000 a year in time-savings using pre-built and custom reports.
Saved $40,000 annually and hundreds of hours with BambooHR Performance Management.
Saved $20,000 annually and 20 hours a week with BambooHR payroll.
Get a Demo
See Case Studies
150+ pre-built integrations
See All Integrations
Style
Dark green integrations
Hear from our customers
4.4 (5,000+ reviews)
Core HR functions are now centralized and accessible reducing the administrative burden.
Melissa E. Director of Safety and Risk Management
Streamlines our processes and makes our HR operations more efficient and cohesive.
Skye M. HR Generalist, ABI Attachments
BambooHR has given me more time to do the more important things!
Jocelyn E. HR Director, 2Great Pediatric Therapy
Out of all the HRIS systems, BambooHR is the easiest to connect with—it's simple, user-friendly, and a breeze to troubleshoot.
Christina F. Product Support Specialist at Culture Amp
Get a Demo
Start Free Trial
Style
dark-green-carousel
Frequently Asked Questions
What does BambooHR do?
BambooHR is the complete HR platform that brings all your employee, payroll, time, and benefit information together in one place, giving you the data accuracy, security, and coordination you need to sleep soundly.
Does BambooHR do payroll?
Yes. BambooHR has its own add-on payroll solution that allows data to flow automatically, reducing the risk of double entry and making payroll runs quick and easy. In addition to seamless data flow, payroll customers also enjoy comprehensive payroll reporting, superior customer support, and full-service tax filing. Learn more by visiting the product page on the BambooHR website.
How much does BambooHR cost?
BambooHR pricing varies depending on the number of employees at your organization and the features you select. To get a free price quote, call 1-866-387-9595 or visit our pricing page.
How many countries is BambooHR in?
BambooHR serves customers in over 150+ countries.
Is your support team outsourced?
No, our support team is entirely in-house to ensure you receive the best service possible.
Is BambooHR a PEO?
BambooHR is an HR software solution, not an outsourcing provider. While we don't provide HR staff for you, we do offer top-notch tools that help time-strapped HR professionals perform the work of many. Even a one-person HR department can use BambooHR to analyze people data, hire talent, onboard new employees, manage compensation, and help strengthen their company culture. And that's just the beginning.
Where's my data housed? How secure is BambooHR?
BambooHR customer data is hosted in the United States, Canada, or Ireland, depending on the location and needs of individual customers and applicable laws. All information is encrypted in transit, and sensitive fields are encrypted at rest. In addition, the data center located in Ireland meets all of the data requirements of the European Union, European Economic Area, Switzerland, and the United Kingdom.
We use a Zero Trust model to keep your data locked down at every level, and we take multiple measures to ensure it stays that way. Here are just some of the measures we take to prevent data leaks and unauthorized data access:
Defense in Depth multi-level data security
Annual third-party SOC II security audit
Frequent vulnerability scans
SAML Support
Web application firewall
Annual penetration test
In a rush? Try BambooHR now!
Start Free Trial
Style
Dark green cta
