About Us | Pathology | University of Utah Health
Skip to main content
Spencer Fox Eccles School of Medicine
Search
Search
Menu
Home
Pathology
About Us
Home
Pathology
About Us
Close
Pathology
About Us
Department of About Us
Administration
Facilities
Jobs
Letter from the Chair
Path-IT
Newsletters
Contact Us
The Department of Pathology includes >150 faculty members of clinical, research, and education programs. Pathology is both a basic science focused on understanding disease mechanisms, and a clinical discipline central to health care delivery. A majority of clinical decisions are based on the results of diagnostic tests performed by pathologists and clinical laboratory scientists, supported by a highly trained workforce of laboratory professionals. The Department of Pathology is also the home for the basic science fields of microbiology and immunology in the School of Medicine.
Affiliated Organizations, External Resources, Partners
HSC Core Research Facilities
The core scientific resources are research facilities available to the entire scientific community at the University of Utah.
ARUP Consult
ARUP Consult®, Version 1.5, is a dynamic tool that provides convenient access to authoritative laboratory-testing guidance.
ARUP Laboratories
ARUP Laboratories is a national reference laboratory and a worldwide leader in innovative laboratory research and development. Owned by the University of Utah, ARUP offers an extensive test menu of highly complex and unique medical tests in clinical and anatomic pathology.
Eccles Health Sciences Library
The mission of the Spencer S. Eccles Health Sciences Library is to advance education, research, and health care through information access, service and innovation. The library serves the educational, research, and clinical needs of health professionals, students and researchers at the Health Sciences Center, the University of Utah, the State of Utah and of the Internet.
Health Sciences Center
University of Utah Health Sciences Center
School of Medicine
University of Utah School of Medicine
WebPath: Internet Pathology Laboratory
This popular web resource includes over 1900 images along with text, tutorials, laboratory exercises, and examination items for self-assessment that demonstrate gross and microscopic pathologic findings associated with human disease conditions.
The Genetics Training Grant
The University of Utah has a proud tradition in research in genetics, which has been supported by the Training Program in Genetics, funded by the National Institutes of Health for more than thirty years. The Training Program in Genetics and students trained by this program contributed to landmark discoveries in genetics, including discovery of restriction fragment length polymorphisms, development of a genetic linkage map in humans, and methods for targeted gene disruption in vertebrates.
School of Medicine Alumni
The Association exists to strengthen and support the University of Utah's School of Medicine by promoting life long relationships between alumni, current students, trainees, and the School of Medicine.
Pathology Department
About Us
Divisions
Employment
IT Services
Residencies & Fellowships
Training Sites & Facilities
School of Medicine
About Us
Alumni & Giving
Departments & Divisions
Digital Accessibility
Graduate Medical Education
Map & Directions
Non-Discrimination Policy
Office of Academic Culture and Community
SOM Research
15 North Medical Drive East, Ste. #1100
Salt Lake City, Utah
84112
801-581-4390
Copyright © 2026 University of Utah Health
