Wasatch Microfluidics: From the Lassonde Institute to Pfizer Research Offices | Lassonde Entrepreneur Institute | University of Utah Toggle navigation
Subscribe Get Involved Subscribe
Get Involved
Home
Studios
Programs & Academics
News & Events News
Events Calendar
Launched at Lassonde
More About
Contact
People
Give
Top-10 Program for Entrepreneurship ~ US News
Home News Current Page
Wasatch Microfluidics: From the Lassonde Institute to Pfizer Research Offices
By Lassonde Staff May 22, 2014 May 22, 2018
After forming on the University of Utah campus in 2004, Josh Eckman, business administration graduate and mechanical engineering masters graduate, made pharmaceutical research technology to a million-dollar company. Wasatch Microfluidics epitomizes the success of companies from the Lassonde Entrepreneur Institute.
Wasatch Microfluidics develops the technology used by leading pharmaceutical companies for drug discovery and life science research. Their new biosensor measures the kinetics of biomolecule binding, which gives information on the strength and speed of binding. This allows for researchers to identify false positives and increases the probability of success. Their biosensor can process the equivalent of 24 competitor’s instruments simultaneously, allowing one month of results to be completed in a day.
“When we first started looking at the idea, we knew that it would be successful. We knew there was a clear market of existing technologies, and what we provided was better,” Eckman, founder of Wasatch Microfluidics, said.
Their technology began with an idea in 2004. Bruce Gale, a professor of mechanical engineering, originally developed Wasatch Microfluidics. Wasatch Microfluidics builds instruments that researchers can utilize to develop new drugs. Today, the company’s tools are found in universities and biotech companies worldwide.
Eckman began developing the company with advisor Gale in the Lassonde New Venture Development Center. The Lassonde Entrepreneur Institute’s oldest and most prestigious program, the New Venture Development provided Eckman with the first steps of how to grow a company. He was paired with fellow New Venture Development student associate and current co-worker Jim Smith and Professor Gale.
“Working one-on-one with students in these intra-disciplinary areas in business and technology can’t be found in other programs,” Gale, current chief science officer of Wasatch Microfluidics, said.
In 2005, Eckman submitted Wasatch Microfluidics to the Utah Entrepreneur Challenge. The Utah Entrepreneur Challenge is one of a three-part series of business idea competitions with the Lassonde Entrepreneur Institute. That year, Wasatch Microfluidics won the top prize of $40,000.
Nearly 10 years later, the company’s success is undeniable. Wasatch Microfluidics earned millions in revenue this past year. The company has received more than $7 million in investments and grant money combined, and Wasatch Microfluidics is not stopping there. With contracts with big name pharmaceutical companies like Pfizer, Wasatch Microfluidics has grown exponentially from its days at the Lassonde New Venture Development.
“The hands-on entrepreneurial experience that we have gained at the Lassonde Entrepreneur Institute is a very important part of forming a company; everything that we have learned still impacts how we do our company today,” Eckman said.
The Lassonde Entrepreneur Institute continues to grow its programs such as Lassonde New Venture Development and the Utah Entrepreneur Challenge to foster the next generation of entrepreneurs and innovators like Eckman.
Share this:
Click to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Email
Click to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window) LinkedIn
Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook
Click to share on X (Opens in new window) X
Click to share on Threads (Opens in new window) Threads
Click to share on Reddit (Opens in new window) Reddit
Alumni , Features , Startups Health Care , New Venture Development . Permalink .
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment *
Name *
Email *
Website
Δ
News
Front Page
Launched at Lassonde
Tips & Tricks
Press Releases
Video
Publications & Reports
In the News
Marketing & Media Resources
Categories
Categories Select Category Academics (124) Alumni (40) Announcements (299) Events (322) Features (166) Lassonde Studios (201) Podcasts (8) Press Releases (265) Publications & Reports (188) Resources (105) Startups (623) Student Innovation @ the U (480) Tips & Tricks (219) Video (137) FEATURED
Top 10 Ranked
We are one of the best programs in the country. Learn more.
Launched at Lassonde
Browse stories about student startups and initiatives
Student Innovation @ the U 2026
Learn about student innovators across the U campus.
Latest News
Events
Lassonde Events Calendar: Fall 2026 Jul 22, 2026
VIDEO: Lassonde Startup Academy 2026 Jul 10, 2026
Photo Gallery: Lassonde Startup Academy 2026 Jul 2, 2026
Lassonde Information Session & Tour (In-Person or Virtual) Friday, August 14, 2026, 12:30 - 1:30pm
Hours With Experts: One-on-One Session Requests Open for August Saturday, August 15, 2026
Lassonde 400: L11 Launch Party Thursday, August 20, 2026, 3 - 5pm
JOIN THE COMMUNITY
Welcome to the hub for student entrepreneurs and innovators at the University of Utah. Subscribe or follow us for news and announcements. Learn More &rarr;
Website Comments
Get Updates
QUICK LINKS
About Lassonde Institute
About
Contact Us
Request Info
Give to Lassonde
Marketing & Media Resources
Lassonde Studios
Overview
Apply to Live Here
Housing Options
Miller Cafe
News, Events & More
News
Calendar
Launched at Lassonde
Start
Tours & Info Sessions
Live
Live at Lassonde Studios
Lassonde Founders
Summer at Lassonde
Lassonde 400 Residential Program
Lassonde Startup Academy
Create
Get Seeded
Workshops
Make Program
Lassonde DevLab
Lassonde DevDay
Hours with Experts
Launch
Tim Draper Utah Entrepreneur Challenge
Tim Draper H.S. Utah Entrepreneur Challenge
Company Launch
New Venture Development
Bench to Bedside
Engage
Meetups
Lassonde Ambassadors
Entrepreneur Club
Student Leadership & Scholarship Opportunities
Lassonde for Life
Entrepreneur Summit Series
Utah Founders
Community Engagement
Learn
Entrepreneurship Classes & Degrees
Master of Business Creation
Lassonde+X
Sandbox
Accessibility
Español
Other languages
Request assistance
Copyright &copy; 2026 | University of Utah | Disclaimer | Privacy
About | Contact | Studios | Home
