entrepreneurship institute | Utah Valley University
Skip to main content
Baugh Entrepreneurship Institute
Apply to UVU
myUVU
Enter search terms
I'm looking for:
Programs
Events
Mentoring
Funding
WE LIFT
Donate
Utah Valley University
Enter search terms
Apply to UVU
myUVU
Programs
Events
Mentoring
Funding
WE LIFT
Donate
Baugh Entrepreneurship Institute
Welcome to the UVU Chelsea & Casey Baugh Entrepreneurship Institute!
Whether you're a student looking to launch your business, a community member eager
to mentor future entrepreneurs, or someone simply interested in getting involved,
we have opportunities for everyone. From credit-bearing classes and hands-on workshops
to mentoring appointments and dynamic events, our programs are designed to inspire
and empower. Join us and become part of a vibrant community committed to innovation
and success!
LEARN
We offer a number of resources for building your entrepreneurial skills, including
traditional coursework. Learn more about the Entrepreneurship Minor Join the Entrepreneurship Lecture Series and hear from seasoned and successful entrepreneurs about their war stories.
DO
We host several business competitions and tradeshows or you can set up an appointment to come in and talk to our mentors about what to do next. We also host pitch events
so you can practice your presentation!
BECOME
Our students have won competitions been on Shark Tank, funded their projects on Kickstarter, and built dozens of businesses.
Y ou can too!
80% of students
and alumni have launched their business in Utah
Ranked No. 1
for the number of grads who opened businesses in the same state as their alma mater
Largest
Business School in the State
150+
Current Student Businesses
1
COURSES : Build a Business and Lecture Series
Take your first step in entrepreneurship with courses designed to launch and grow
your business. Whether you're attending lecture series featuring successful CEOs,
enrolling in hands-on "Build a Business" courses to start your venture, or taking
upper-division classes to scale your company, you can earn class credit while building
a real business.
2
EVENTS : Workshops, conferences, and more!
Join our hands-on workshops and conferences designed to help you build and grow your
business. Our free workshops cover essential business fundamentals, while our conferences
connect you with experienced mentors and industry leaders. With a wide range of events,
you'll gain the skills, knowledge, and network needed to take your venture to the
next level.
3
STUDENTS : ZinnStarter and VentureCon
Each semester, we host two major events that provide hands-on experience for aspiring
entrepreneurs. VentureCon is our student business trade show, where you can set up
shop at UVU alongside other student entrepreneurs, sell your product, conduct market
research, and raise awareness for your business. Zinnstarter is our pitch competition,
where you'll work with a mentor to refine your pitch and present it to a panel of
judges for a chance to win equity-free seed funding. These events are designed to
help you gain real-world experience and take your business to the next level.
4
COMMUNITY: WolverINC and WINGS Society
Get involved in the UVU Entrepreneurship community by launching a business with a
student in the WolverINC program, mentoring students in classes, sponsoring a program,
or forming a WINGS group to judge student pitches. Your support helps shape the next
generation of entrepreneurs and fosters innovation in our local business ecosystem.
"The Entrepreneurship Institute comes through on their promises: dreams become reality.
They always have trainings to participate in, mentors to learn from, and life-changing
connections to make. The EI can take anyone who's willing to work and turn them into
a legitimate founder. My life is better because of it." - Hunter Anderton
"When I just started school, during my generals, I had the best entrepreneurship class
with [Professor] Vance Gough. I was so inspired by the concept of creating something
that you love and being able to make it your career. So, that became my goal from
there." - Maysen Minor
"Participating in the UVU Entrepreneurship Institute was a game-changer for me. Through
competitions and VentureCon, I was able to validate my business idea and gain valuable
insights. Working with mentors helped me refine my approach and gave me the confidence
to take my business to the next level. The resources and support from the institute
made all the difference in turning my idea into a reality." - Kaleb Cheek
The Baughs
Chelsea and Casey Baugh are successful entrepreneurs and dedicated philanthropists
whose generous donation to Utah Valley University’s Entrepreneurship Institute will
significantly enhance opportunities for student innovators. Both UVU alumni, Chelsea
was a standout on the university’s women’s volleyball team before earning a degree
in healthcare education, while Casey built a career transforming startups into thriving
businesses. Their support will expand UVU’s industry-focused “Build-a-Business” initiatives,
strengthen partnerships with startup incubators like Sandbox, and increase funding
and mentorship opportunities for student ventures.
Beyond their contributions to UVU, Chelsea and Casey are active leaders in the business
and philanthropic communities. Chelsea manages the iHub fund, invests in young entrepreneurs,
and is pursuing an Executive MBA at BYU. Casey, a former senior executive at Vivint
and co-founder of Roots Management Group, now leads Sandlot Partners and teaches entrepreneurship.
Together, they are passionate about empowering future entrepreneurs and strengthening
Utah’s startup ecosystem.
Chelsea & Casey Baugh
UVU EI Stories Loading
COMPETITIONS
WORKSHOPS
SEED FUNDING
MENTORING
$600k+
Awarded to Date
4500+
Students Served to Date
150+
Current student Businesses
65+
Active mentors
The EI team
Loading Directory data....
Meet us on Social
Entrepreneurship Institute
[email protected]
(801) 863-5354
KB 102
Student
Admissions
Campus Life
Current Student
Accreditation
Employees
Career Opportunities
Employee Resources
Directory
People & Culture
Community
Athletics
Visitors & Community
Office of the President
About UVU / History
Alumni
Engagement & Effectiveness
Give to UVU
Contact Us
Utility
Maps / Parking
Service Desk
Emergency
Police
Get Help
Search
Accessibility
Report Access Barrier
Title IX / Equal Opportunity
News
Events
Utah Valley University
800 West University Parkway, Orem, UT 84058
(801) 863-8888
&copy; Utah Valley University
Terms of Use
Privacy Statement
Copyright Complaints
Non-Discrimination and Accessibility Statement
Linkedin
Instagram
Facebook
YouTube
Twitter
Athletics
