August 18, 2021

Gary K. Price
Head of Regulatory Affairs and Quality Assurance
Infinity BiologiX LLC
30 Knightsbridge Road
Piscataway, NJ 08854

Device: Infinity BiologiX TaqPath SARS-CoV-2 Assay
EUA: EUA200090
Company: Infinity BiologiX LLC
Indication: This test is indicated for the following indications for use:
Qualitative detection of nucleic acid from Severe Acute
Respiratory Syndrome Coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) in
oropharyngeal (throat) swab, nasopharyngeal swab, anterior nasal
swab, mid-turbinate nasal swab, and bronchoalveolar lavage
(BAL) fluid from individuals suspected of COVID-19 by their
healthcare provider.
When determined to be appropriate by a healthcare provider, this
test is also for use with saliva specimens that are self-collected at
home using the IBX Saliva Collection Kit or that are collected in a
healthcare setting by individuals using the Spectrum Solutions
SDNA-1000 Saliva Collection Device.
This test is also for the qualitative detection of nucleic acid from
SARS-CoV-2 in pooled saliva samples containing up to 5
individual saliva specimens that are self-collected at home using
the IBX Saliva Collection Kit or that are collected in a healthcare
setting by individuals using the Spectrum Solutions SDNA-1000
Saliva Collection Device, when determined to be appropriate by
healthcare provider.
Authorized Laboratories: Testing is limited to Infinity BiologiX LLC laboratories, located at
Nelson Biological Sciences, C-Wing, 604 Allison Road,
Piscataway, NJ 08854 and 3510 Hopkins Place, Bldg 4, Oakdale,
MN 55128, which are certified under Clinical Laboratory
Improvement Amendments of 1988 (CLIA), 42 U.S.C. §263a and
meet requirements to perform high-complexity tests.
Dear Mr. Price:

Page 2 – Gary K. Price, Infinity BiologiX LLC

On April 10, 2020, based on a request from Rutgers Clinical Genomics Laboratory at RUCDR
Infinite Biologics – Rutgers University (“Rutgers”), the Food and Drug Administration (FDA)
issued a letter determining that the Rutgers Clinical Genomics Laboratory TaqPath SARS-CoV-
2 Assay met the criteria for issuance under section 564(c) of the Act to be eligible for
authorization under the March 31, 2020, Emergency Use Authorization (EUA) for Molecular-
based Laboratory Developed Tests for Detection of Nucleic Acid from SARS-CoV-2 (High
Complexity LDT umbrella EUA) for the qualitative detection of nucleic acid from SARS-CoV-
2 in respiratory specimens collected from individuals suspected of COVID-19 by their
healthcare provider, pursuant to Section 564 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (the
Act) (21 U.S.C. §360bbb-3). As authorized under the High Complexity LDT umbrella EUA,
testing was limited to the single laboratory that developed the authorized test and that is
certified under CLIA, 42 U.S.C. §263a, to perform high complexity tests pursuant to the Scope
of Authorization and Conditions of Authorization of that EUA.
1
Based on your requests, on
May 7, 2020,
2
September 18, 2020,
3
and November 13, 2020.
4
FDA authorized the use of the
assay with revisions incorporated. FDA granted updates to the authorized labeling on
November 30, 2020
5
, March 11, 2021
6
and May 27, 2021.
7

1
In this case testing was limited to Rutgers Clinical Genomics Laboratory (RCGL) at RUCDR Infinite Biologics –
Rutgers University, Piscataway, NJ, that is a CLIA, 42 U.S.C. §263a, certified high-complexity laboratory.
2
On April 30, 2020, FDA received a request from Rutgers to revise the Scope of Authorization and thus, the test’s
intended use as originally specified by the High Complexity LDT umbrella EUA, to include home collection of
saliva specimens using the Spectrum Solutions LLC SDNA-1000 Saliva Collection Device when determined to be
appropriate by a healthcare provider. In response to that request, because the requested revision to the test’s
intended use was beyond the Scope of Authorization of the High Complexity LDT umbrella EUA, FDA authorized
the use of the Rutgers Clinical Genomics Laboratory TaqPath SARS-CoV-2 Assay, pursuant to section 564 of the
Act and the Scope of Authorization (Section II) and Conditions of Authorization (Section IV) of the May 7, 2020
letter of authorization, for the qualitative detection of nucleic acid from SARS-CoV-2 in oropharyngeal (throat)
swab, nasopharyngeal swab, anterior nasal swab, mid-turbinate nasal swab, and bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) fluid
from individuals suspected of COVID-19 by their healthcare provider. As part of the authorization, the Spectrum
Solutions LLC SDNA-1000 Saliva Collection Device could be used to self-collect saliva specimens at home or in a
healthcare setting by individuals when determined to be appropriate by a healthcare provider. In the May 7, 2020,
letter, testing was limited to Rutgers Clinical Genomics Laboratory (RCGL) at RUCDR Infinite Biologics – Rutgers
University, Piscataway, NJ, that is a CLIA, 42 U.S.C. §263a, certified high-complexity laboratory.
3
On August 12 and 13, 2020, FDA received requests from Rutgers and Infinity BiologiX LLC, respectively, to
amend the EUA for the Rutgers Clinical Genomics Laboratory TaqPath SARS-CoV-2 Assay to transfer the EUA
from Rutgers to Infinity BiologiX LLC and update the device name to Infinity BiologiX TaqPath SARS-CoV-2
Assay. On September 18, 2020, additional revisions to the May 7, 2020, letter included revisions to (1) update the
authorized labeling, (2) revise the Conditions of Authorization to apply to Infinity BiologiX LLC, and (3) add
appropriate Conditions of Authorization for authorized distributors.
4
On October 29, 2020, FDA received a request from Infinity BiologiX LLC to add a second Infinity BiologiX LLC
authorized laboratory at 3510 Hopkins Place, Bldg 4, Oakdale, MN 55128.
5
On November 30, 2020, your request was granted to add an authorized distributor to distribute the IBX Saliva
Collection Kit under the brand name AZOVA At-Home COVID-19 Test Collection Kit for use with the Infinity
BiologiX TaqPath SARS-CoV-2 Assay.
6
On March 11, 2021, your request was granted to add an authorized distributor to distribute the IBX Saliva
Collection Kit under the brand name Wellness 4 Humanity SDNA-1000 Saliva Collection Kit for use with the
Infinity BiologiX TaqPath SARS-CoV-2 Assay.
7
On May 27, 2021, your supplement was acknowledged via email to update the EUA Summary of your product
with results from testing with the FDA SARS-CoV-2 Reference Panel.

Page 3 – Gary K. Price, Infinity BiologiX LLC

On June 23, 2021, you
8
requested to further amend this EUA. Based on that request, and having
concluded that revising the November 13, 2020, EUA is appropriate to protect the public health
or safety under section 564(g)(2)(C) of the Act (21 U.S.C. § 360bbb-3(g)(2)(C)), FDA is
reissuing the November 13, 2020, letter in its entirety with the revisions incorporated.
9
Accordingly, your product
10
is hereby authorized pursuant to section 564 of the Act when used
pursuant to the Scope of Authorization (Section II) and Conditions of Authorization (Section IV)
of this reissued letter.

On February 4, 2020, pursuant to Section 564(b)(1)(C) of the Act, the Secretary of the
Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) determined that there is a public health
emergency that has a significant potential to affect national security or the health and security of
United States citizens living abroad, and that involves the virus that causes COVID-19.
Pursuant to Section 564 of the Act, and on the basis of such determination, the Secretary of
HHS then declared that circumstances exist justifying the authorization of emergency use of in
vitro diagnostics for detection and/or diagnosis of the virus that causes COVID-19 subject to the
terms of any authorization issued under Section 564(a) of the Act.
11

FDA considered the totality of scientific information available in authorizing the emergency use
of your product for the indication above. A summary of the performance information FDA
relied upon is contained in the EUA Summary (identified below).

Having concluded that the criteria for issuance of this authorization under Section 564(c) of the
Act are met, I am authorizing the emergency use of your product, described in the Scope of
Authorization Section of this letter (Section II), subject to the terms of this authorization.

I. Criteria for Issuance of Authorization

I have concluded that the emergency use of your product meets the criteria for issuance of an
authorization under Section 564(c) of the Act, because I have concluded that:

8
For ease of reference, this EUA will use the term “you” and related terms to refer to Infinity BiologiX LLC.
9
The revisions to the November 13, 2020, letter and authorized labeling include: (1) update the point of contact, (2)
update the intended use to include a claim for the “qualitative detection of nucleic acid from SARS-CoV-2 in pooled
saliva samples containing up to 5 individual saliva specimens that are self-collected at home using the IBX Saliva
Collection Kit or that are collected in a healthcare setting by individuals using the Spectrum Solutions SDNA-1000
Saliva Collection Device, when determined to be appropriate by healthcare provider” and associated updates to the
Healthcare Provider and Patient Fact Sheets, laboratory SOPs, EUA Summary and Letter of Authorization to reflect
the updated indication, (3) updates to the Conditions of Authorization to add new Conditions related to circulating
variants (Conditions K. and L.) and conditions associated with the updated intended use for pooling (Conditions U.,
V. and W.); (4) addition of new laboratory SOPs related to the new intended use and also updates to the previous
laboratory SOPs, and (5) updates to the IFU, Conditions of Authorization, Healthcare Provider and Patient Fact
Sheets to reflect language used in more recent authorizations.
10
For ease of reference, this EUA will use the term “your product” to refer to the entire test system – e.g., the
Infinity BiologiX TaqPath SARS-CoV-2 Assay, controls, ancillary reagents, other materials, the Spectrum Solutions
SDNA-1000 Saliva Collection Device, and the IBX Saliva Collection Kit – authorized under this EUA as outlined in
the Scope of Authorization (Section II) and Conditions of Authorization (Section IV).
11
U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, Determination of a Public Health Emergency and Declaration
that Circumstances Exist Justifying Authorizations Pursuant to Section 564(b) of the Federal Food, Drug, and
Cosmetic Act, 21 U.S.C. § 360bbb-3. 85 FR 7316 (February 7, 2020).

Page 4 – Gary K. Price, Infinity BiologiX LLC

1. The SARS-CoV-2 can cause a serious or life-threatening disease or condition,
including severe respiratory illness, to humans infected by this virus;

2. Based on the totality of scientific evidence available to FDA, it is reasonable to believe
that your product may be effective in diagnosing COVID-19, and that the known and
potential benefits of your product when used for diagnosing COVID-19, outweigh the
known and potential risks of your product; and

3. There is no adequate, approved, and available alternative to the emergency use of your
product.
12

II. Scope of Authorization

I have concluded, pursuant to Section 564(d)(1) of the Act, that the scope of this authorization is
limited to the indication above.

Authorized Product Details

Your product is a test system that includes the Infinity BiologiX TaqPath SARS-CoV-2 Assay,
controls, ancillary reagents, other materials, the Spectrum Solutions SDNA-1000 Saliva
Collection Device, and the IBX Saliva Collection Kit. The product is authorized to be distributed
and used as described in this letter, despite the fact that the product does not meet certain
requirements otherwise required by applicable federal law.

The test is a qualitative test for the detection of nucleic acid from SARS-CoV-2 in oropharyngeal
(throat) swab, nasopharyngeal swab, anterior nasal swab, mid-turbinate nasal swab, and
bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) fluid from individuals suspected of COVID-19 by their healthcare
provider.

When determined to be appropriate by a healthcare provider, this test is also for use with saliva
specimens that are self-collected at home using the IBX Saliva Collection Kit or that are
collected in a healthcare setting by individuals using the Spectrum Solutions SDNA-1000 Saliva
Collection Device.

This test is also for the qualitative detection of nucleic acid from SARS-CoV-2 in pooled saliva
samples containing up to 5 individual saliva specimens that are self-collected at home using the
IBX Saliva Collection Kit or that are collected in a healthcare setting by individuals using the
Spectrum Solutions SDNA-1000 Saliva Collection Device, when determined to be appropriate
by healthcare provider. Negative results from pooled testing should not be treated as definitive. If
a patient’s clinical signs and symptoms are inconsistent with a negative result or results are
necessary for patient management, the patient should be considered for individual testing.
Specimens included in pools with a positive and indeterminate result must be tested individually
prior to reporting a result. Specimens with low viral loads may not be detected in sample pools
due to decreased sensitivity in pooled testing.

12
No other criteria of issuance have been prescribed by regulation under Section 564(c)(4) of the Act.

Page 5 – Gary K. Price, Infinity BiologiX LLC

Testing is limited to Infinity BiologiX, Nelson Biological Sciences, C-Wing, 604 Allison Road,
Piscataway, NJ 08854, and 3510 Hopkins Place, Bldg 4, Oakdale, MN 55128, which are certified
under CLIA, 42 U.S.C. §263a and meet requirements to perform high-complexity tests.

The SARS-CoV-2 nucleic acid is generally detectable in respiratory and saliva specimens during
the acute phase of infection. Positive results are indicative of the presence of SARS-CoV-2
nucleic acid; clinical correlation with patient history and other diagnostic information is
necessary to determine patient infection status. Positive results do not rule out bacterial infection
or co-infection with other viruses. Negative results do not preclude SARS-CoV-2 infection and
should not be used as the sole basis for patient management decisions. Negative results must be
combined with clinical observations, patient history, and epidemiological information. Negative
results for SARS-CoV-2 RNA from saliva should be confirmed by testing of an alternative
specimen type if clinically indicated.

To use your test, SARS-CoV-2 nucleic acid is first extracted, isolated and purified from in
oropharyngeal (throat) swab, nasopharyngeal swab, anterior nasal swab, mid-turbinate nasal
swab, saliva and BAL fluid. The purified nucleic acid is then reverse transcribed into cDNA
followed by PCR amplification and detection using an authorized real-time (RT) PCR
instrument. Your test uses all commercially sourced materials or other authorized materials and
authorized ancillary reagents commonly used in clinical laboratories as described in the
authorized labeling.

Your test requires the following control materials, or other authorized control materials (as may
be requested under Condition I. below), that are to be run as outlined in the authorized labeling.
All controls listed below must generate expected results in order for a test to be considered valid,
as outlined in the authorized labeling (described below):

• Internal Control – MS2 Phage – added to each specimen and the negative control
prior to extraction - controls for specimen quality and demonstrates that nucleic acid
was generated by the extraction process.
• Positive Control - monitors the integrity of the RT-PCR reagents and process.
• Negative Control – monitors for cross-contamination during RNA extraction and RT-
PCR.
• No Template (Negative) Control - Nuclease-free, molecular-grade water used to
monitor non-specific amplification, cross-contamination during experimental setup,
and nucleic acid contamination of reagents.

Your test also requires the use of additional authorized materials and authorized ancillary
reagents that are not included with your product and which are described in the authorized
labeling.

The above described test is authorized to be accompanied with the EUA Summary (available at
https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/coronavirus-disease-2019-covid-19-emergency-use-
authorizations-medical-devices/in-vitro-diagnostics-euas), the Infinity BiologiX LLC Standard
Operating Procedures (SOPs) bundle,
13
and the following product-specific information

13
The SOP bundle consists of the following: 103-0010 Sample Registration and Accessioning in IBX LIMS, 503-

Page 6 – Gary K. Price, Infinity BiologiX LLC

pertaining to the emergency use, which is required to be made available to healthcare providers
and patients:

• Fact Sheet for Healthcare Providers: Infinity BiologiX LLC - Infinity BiologiX
TaqPath SARS-CoV-2 Assay
• Fact Sheet for Patients: Infinity BiologiX LLC - Infinity BiologiX TaqPath
SARS-CoV-2 Assay

The above described product, when accompanied by the Infinity BiologiX LLC Standard
Operating Procedures (SOPs) bundle (see footnote 13) the EUA Summary (identified above) and
the two Fact Sheets is authorized to be distributed to and used by the authorized laboratories (i.e.,
limited to Infinity BiologiX, Nelson Biological Sciences, C-Wing, 604 Allison Road,
Piscataway, NJ 08854, and 3510 Hopkins Place, Bldg 4, Oakdale, MN 55128) under this EUA,
despite the fact that it does not meet certain requirements otherwise required by applicable
federal law.

The IBX Saliva Collection Kit and Spectrum Solutions SDNA-1000 Saliva Collection Device
when accompanied by the “Patient Self-collection Kit and Collection Process SOP – Telehealth”
and “Patient Self-collection Kit and Collection Process SOP” instructions (for the IBX Saliva
Collection Kit) and patient instructions that accompany the Spectrum Solutions SDNA-1000
Saliva Collection Device, are authorized to be distributed and used as part of the above described
product for use with the test as set forth in this EUA.

“Authorized labeling” refers to the EUA Summary, Infinity BiologiX LLC SOPs bundle (see
footnote 13), two Fact Sheets, “Patient Self-collection Kit and Collection Process SOP –
Telehealth” and “Patient Self-collection Kit and Collection Process SOP” instructions (for the
IBX Saliva Collection Kit) and patient instructions that accompany the Spectrum Solutions
SDNA-1000 Saliva Collection Device.

I have concluded, pursuant to Section 564(d)(2) of the Act, that it is reasonable to believe that
the known and potential benefits of your product, when used consistent with the Scope of
Authorization of this letter (Section II), outweigh the known and potential risks of your product.

I have concluded, pursuant to Section 564(d)(3) of the Act, based on the totality of scientific
evidence available to FDA, that it is reasonable to believe that your product may be effective for
the indication above, when used consistent with the Scope of Authorization of this letter (Section
II), pursuant to Section 564(c)(2)(A) of the Act.

FDA has reviewed the scientific information available to FDA, including the information
supporting the conclusions described in Section I above, and concludes that your product (as
described in the Scope of Authorization of this letter (Section II)) meets the criteria set forth in

0013 Infinity Biologix Clinical Genomics Laboratory TaqPath SARS-CoV-2 Assay, 503-0017 Infinity BiologiX
Taqpath SARS-CoV-2 Testing with Pooling Methodology, 2003-0360 Purification of Viral DNA-RNA Using the
Chemagic 360 with the Thermo TaqPath COVID-19 Assay, 2003-0425 Purification of Viral DNA-RNA Using the
Chemagic 360 with Pooled Source Samples, 2003-0426 Transfer of Saliva Samples to Intermediate Tubes and
DWPs on Hamilton STAR and STARlet, 2003-0451 Saliva based pooling sample deconvolution for retesting and
reporting in Project Destiny.

Page 7 – Gary K. Price, Infinity BiologiX LLC

Section 564(c) of the Act concerning safety and potential effectiveness.

The emergency use of your product under this EUA must be consistent with, and may not
exceed, the terms of this letter, including the Scope of Authorization (Section II) and the
Conditions of Authorization (Section IV). Subject to the terms of this EUA and under the
circumstances set forth in the Secretary of HHS's determination under Section 564(b)(1)(C) of
the Act described above and the Secretary of HHS’s corresponding declaration under Section
564(b)(1) of the Act, your product is authorized for the indication above.

III. Waiver of Certain Requirements

I am waiving the following requirements for your product during the duration of this EUA:

• Current good manufacturing practice requirements, including the quality system
requirements under 21 CFR Part 820 with respect to the design, manufacture,
packaging, labeling, storage, and distribution of your product.

IV. Conditions of Authorization

Pursuant to Section 564(e) of the Act, I am establishing the following conditions on this
authorization:

Infinity BiologiX LLC (You) and Authorized Distributor(s)
14

A. You and authorized distributors will make available all instructions related to the self-
collection of saliva specimens using the IBX Saliva Collection Kit and Spectrum
Solutions SDNA-1000 Saliva Collection Device, both in the shipped kit and on your
website.

B. Through a process of inventory control, you and authorized distributor(s) will maintain
records of the numbers and locations to which the IBX Saliva Collection Kit and/or
Spectrum Solutions SDNA-1000 Saliva Collection Device are distributed.

C. You and authorized distributor(s) will maintain customer complaint files on record. You
will report to FDA any significant complaints about usability or deviations from the
established performance characteristics of which you become aware.

D. You and authorized distributor(s) are authorized to make available additional
information relating to the emergency use of your product that is consistent with, and
does not exceed, the terms of this letter of authorization.

Infinity BiologiX LLC (You)

14
“Authorized Distributor(s)” are identified by you, Infinity BiologiX LLC, in your EUA submission as an entity
allowed to distribute the IBX Saliva Collection Kit and/or Spectrum Solutions SDNA-1000 Saliva Collection
Device.

Page 8 – Gary K. Price, Infinity BiologiX LLC

E. Your product must comply with the following labeling requirements: the intended use
statement (21 CFR 809.10(a)(2), (b)(2)); adequate directions for use (21 U.S.C. 352(f)),
(21 CFR 809.10(b)(5), (7), and (8)); appropriate limitations on the use of the device
including information required under 21 CFR 809.10(a)(4); and any available
information regarding performance of the device, including requirements under 21 CFR
809.10(b)(12).

F. You will make available on your website(s) the Fact Sheet for Healthcare Providers and
the Fact Sheet for Patients.

G. You will notify FDA of any authorized distributor(s) of the IBX Saliva Collection Kit
and/or Spectrum Solutions SDNA-1000 Saliva Collection Device, including the name,
address, and phone number of any authorized distributor(s).

H. You will provide authorized distributor(s), relevant public health authorities, and the two
authorized laboratories with a copy of this EUA and communicate to authorized
distributor(s), relevant public health authorities, and the two authorized laboratories any
subsequent amendments that might be made to this EUA and the authorized
accompanying materials.

I. You may request changes to this EUA for your product, including to the Scope of
Authorization (Section II in this letter) or to the authorized labeling, including requests to
make available additional authorized labeling specific to an authorized distributor. Such
additional labeling may use another name for the product but otherwise must be
consistent with the authorized labeling, and not exceed the terms of authorization of this
letter. Any request for changes to this EUA should be submitted to the Division of
Microbiology (DMD)/Office of Health Technology 7 (OHT7)-Office of In Vitro
Diagnostics and Radiological Health (OIR)/Office of Product Evaluation and Quality
(OPEQ)/Center for Devices and Radiological Health (CDRH) and require appropriate
authorization from FDA prior to implementation.

J. You will evaluate the analytical limit of detection and assess traceability of your test
with any FDA-recommended reference material(s), if requested by FDA.
15
After
submission to and concurrence with the data by FDA, FDA will update the EUA
Summary to reflect the additional testing.

K. You must evaluate the impact of SARS-CoV-2 viral mutations on your product’s
performance. Such evaluations must occur on an ongoing basis and must include any
additional data analysis that is requested by FDA in response to any performance
concerns you or FDA identify during routine evaluation. Additionally, if requested by
FDA, you must submit records of these evaluations for FDA review within 48 hours of
the request. If your evaluation identifies viral mutations that affect the stated expected
performance of your device, you must notify FDA immediately.

15
Traceability refers to tracing analytical sensitivity/reactivity back to an FDA-recommended reference material.
FDA may request, for example, that you perform this study in the event that we receive reports of adverse events
concerning your product.

Page 9 – Gary K. Price, Infinity BiologiX LLC

L. If requested by FDA, you must update your labeling within 7 calendar days to include
any additional labeling risk mitigations identified by FDA, such as those related to the
impact of viral mutations on test performance. Such updates will be made in
consultation with, and require concurrence of, DMD/OHT7-OIR/OPEQ/CDRH.

M. You will ensure authorized laboratories using your product have a process in place for
reporting test results to healthcare providers and relevant public health authorities, as
appropriate.

N. You will have a process in place to track adverse events, including any occurrence of
false results with your product, including with the IBX Saliva Collection Kit and
Spectrum Solutions SDNA-1000 Saliva Collection Device, and report any such events
to FDA pursuant to 21 CFR Part 803. Serious adverse events, especially unexpected
biosafety concerns, should immediately be reported to DMD/OHT7-OIR/OPEQ/CDRH
(via email: CDRH-EUA-Reporting@fda.hhs.gov).

O. You will collect information on the performance of your product. You will report to
FDA any suspected occurrence of false positive or flase negative results and signficiant
devciations from the established performance characteristics of the product of which
you become aware.

Authorized Laboratories

P. Authorized laboratories using your product will include with test result reports, all
authorized Fact Sheets. Under exigent circumstances, other appropriate methods for
disseminating these Fact Sheets may be used, which may include mass media.

Q. Authorized laboratories using your product will use your product as outlined in the
authorized labeling. Deviations from the authorized procedures, including the
authorized instruments, authorized extraction methods, authorized clinical specimen
types, authorized control materials, authorized other ancillary reagents and authorized
materials required to use your product are not permitted.

R. Authorized laboratories that receive your product will notify the relevant public health
authorities of their intent to run your product prior to initiating testing.

S. Authorized laboratories using your product will have a process in place for reporting test
results to healthcare providers and relevant public health authorities, as appropriate.

T. Authorized laboratories will collect information on the performance of your product and
report to DMD/OHT7-OIR/OPEQ/CDRH (via email: CDRH-EUA-
Reporting@fda.hhs.gov) and you (via email: IBX-COVID19@inifinity-biologix.com or
phone: 1-732-445-1498) any suspected occurrence of false positive or false negative
results and significant deviations from the established performance characteristics of
your product of which they become aware.

Page 10 – Gary K. Price, Infinity BiologiX LLC

U. Authorized laboratories using specimen pooling strategies when testing patient
specimens with your product must include with test result reports for specific patients
whose specimen(s) were the subject of pooling, a notice that pooling was used during
testing and that “Patient specimens with low viral loads may not be detected in sample
pools due to the decreased sensitivity of pooled testing.”

V. Authorized laboratories implementing pooling strategies for testing patient specimens
must use the “Specimen Pooling Implementation and Monitoring Guidelines” available
in the authorized labeling to evaluate the appropriateness of continuing to use such
strategies based on the recommendations in the protocol.

W. Authorized laboratories must keep records of specimen pooling strategies implemented
including type of strategy, date implemented, and quantities tested, and test result data
generated as part of the Protocol for Monitoring of Specimen Pooling Testing Strategies.
For the first 12 months from the date of their creation, such records will be made
available to FDA within 48 business hours for inspection upon request, and will be made
available within a reasonable time after 12 months from the date of their creation.

X. All laboratory personnel using your product must be appropriately trained in molecular
techniques and use appropriate laboratory and personal protective equipment when
handling this product, and use your product in accordance with the authorized labeling.

Infinity BiologiX (You), Authorized Distributors and Authorized Laboratories

Y. You, authorized distributors, and authorized laboratories using your product will ensure
that any records associated with this EUA are maintained until otherwise notified by
FDA. Such records will be made available to FDA for inspection upon request.

Conditions Related to Printed Materials, Advertising and Promotion

Z. All descriptive printed matter, advertising and promotional materials relating to the use
of your product shall be consistent with the authorized labeling, as well as the terms set
forth in this EUA and meet the requirements set forth in section 502(a), (q)(1), and (r) of
the Act, as applicable, and FDA implementing regulations.

AA. No descriptive printed matter, advertising or promotional materials relating to the use of
your product may represent or suggest that this test is safe or effective for the detection of
SARS-CoV-2.

BB. All descriptive printed matter, advertising and promotional materials relating to the use
of your product shall clearly and conspicuously state that:

• This product has not been FDA cleared or approved, but has been authorized for
emregency use by FDA under an EUA for use by authorized laboratories;

Page 11 – Gary K. Price, Infinity BiologiX LLC

• This product has been authorized only for the detection of nucleic acid from
SARS-CoV-2, not for any other viruses or pathogens; and

• The emergency use of this product is only authorized for the duration of the
declaration that circumstances exist justifying the authorization of emergency use
of in vitro diagnostics for detection and/or diagnosis of COVID-19 under Section
564(b)(1) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, 21 U.S.C. § 360bbb-
3(b)(1), unless the declaration is terminated or authorization is revoked sooner.

The emergency use of your product as described in this letter of authorization must comply
with the conditions and all other terms of this authorization.

V. Duration of Authorization

This EUA will be effective until the declaration that circumstances exist justifying the
authorization of the emergency use of in vitro diagnostics for detection and/or diagnosis of
COVID-19 is terminated under Section 564(b)(2) of the Act or the EUA is revoked under
Section 564(g) of the Act.

Sincerely,

____________________________
RADM Denise M. Hinton
Chief Scientist
Food and Drug Administration

Enclosure
