2025 Awards
Best of the Best
®

®
BESTOF
STATE
®
OFBEST
STATE
®

KentsonCarCompany.com

BEST OF STATE
CAR DEALER13X13X

Thank you to the judges, our employees,
and most of all, our customers

15x Best of State Winner
Feel the difference of Cariloha’s bedding, bath, and
apparel made from soft, sustainable bamboo.
Get 25% OFF at Cariloha.com
Code: BEST25 | Expires: 12-31-2025 | Offer Not Combinable.

Being at Your
Best Deserves
Quality Rest

4 © 2025 BEST OF STATE

(800) 667-9328 sunbeltrentals.com

8 © 2025 BEST OF STATE

Naomi Anderson
Sidd Aurora
Kadee Ballard
Tonia Ballard
Stacy Bateman
Samantha Bedont
Lisa Blodgett
Mark Brown
Sandy Christensen
Adam Cowan
Brian Cox
Angela Curtis

Anna Dewald
Richard Dick
Tristin Duncan
Teri Eaton
Bruce Jack Edwards
Jay Elliot
Paula Farr
Clay Fenton
Wendy Fenton
Jessica Finegan
Lynn Funk
Mike Funk

Anna Gibbs
Kathie Gibson
Duncan Hamby
Jonathon Hamby
Michelle Hamby
Matthew Hamby
Kaesalesa Hamby
Paden Hanson
Lacie Horman
Angela Hymas
Kate Innes
Kensaku Kawamoto

Melanie Lawrence
Andy Liston
Evan Loveless
Nicholas Mack
Rich Madsen
Jeff Merrill
Eddie Moreno
Nefeterie “Neffy”
Nunley
Robyn Parker
Matt Paxman
Shelby Peterson

Natalie Porter
Meagan Price
Chantelle Ray
Pete Ray
Robert Rees
Melody Riches
Sandi Rogers
Anne Roquemore
Aonika Russel
Adrian Russell
Jason Russell
Jennifer Simpson

Tori Snow
Neal A. Spackman
Jade Taylor
Kiersten Thomson
Allison Tran
Nancy Waugh
Melissa Wehrl
Wayne Will
Kim Yore

Special Thanks to our 2025 Best of State Volunteers

SPECIAL THANKS

Thanks to the
Best of State
2025 Sponsors

Mark Layton
Matthew Hamby
Mallory Layton

Best of State Staff

Best of State Supporting Staff

Mallory Layton
Matthew Hamby
Lynn Gilbert
Nate Fairclough
Matt Monsen
WEBB
Layton Productions
Skylark Media
SymbolArts
Shayla Fairclough

Chief Operating Officer
Executive Judges Director
Gilbert & Stewart, CPA, PC
Director of Advertising
Database Manager
Audio and Visual Production
Staging and Event Production
Video Graphics & Editing
Web Store
Front of House Manager

Best of State
924 S 1000 E
Orem, UT 84097-6604
(801) 361-7300
www.bestofstate.org

9© 2025 BEST OF STATE

TABLE OF CONTENTS

BEST OF STATE® EVENTS GUIDE

The Premier Recognition and Awards Program ®

Registered Trademarks and Patents
Best of State
®

Excelling and Surpassing All Else
®

Best of the Best
®

The Premier Recognition and Awards Program
®

The BOSS (Best of State Statue)
®

The Best of State Statue, the BOSS
™

U.S. Patent NOS. US 7.045.218 and US D520.408 S
© 2002 - 2025 Best of State

SPECIAL THANKS 8

BEST OF STATE LEGACY COUNCIL 10

THE AWARDS 12

2025 BEST OF STATE GALA 14

BEST OF STATE MEDAL WINNERS

ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT 18

BUSINESS SERVICES 22

COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT 26

DINING 30

EDUCATION 38

HOSPITALITY, TRAVEL & TOURISM 42

MERCHANDISING & CONSUMER SERVICES 45

PRODUCTION & MANUFACTURING 50

SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY 54

SPORTS & RECREATION 56

9

10 © 2025 BEST OF STATE

Best of State
Legacy Council
The Best of State Legacy Council is comprised of business
and community leaders committed to supporting the
recognition of excellence, achievement, and community
service through the Best of State Awards Program.

Kent Crawford,
KUTV
Kent Crawford began his
media career in 1980, and
has had numerous sales
management positions
since that time. He has
been in broadcast/internet
sales management for
more than 20 years. Kent is currently the General
Manager at KUTV Ch. 2. Kent’s focus has always
been to aid clients in achieving their marketing goals
and objectives with the effective use of television
and the internet. He has created numerous public
service and commercial campaigns.

Kent is a past board member of the Utah Advertising
Federations. He is a graduate of the University of
Utah. He resides in Salt Lake City with his wife and
two children.

Heather Osmond,
Osmond Designs
Heather Osmond is the
owner of the Osmond
Designs furniture and
interior design stores. She
is a seven time recipient of
the best of state awards.
She is also a television and
radio personality, and she hosts the KSL real estate
show that airs every Saturday morning at 11 AM.
Heather Osmond is passionate about giving back
to the Utah community. She is a former Miss Utah
Teen USA and Mrs. Utah, she is a pageant coach,
and has also judged pageants in Utah and Arizona.
Heather’s greatest accomplishment is her four
amazing kids.

Jeff Young, YESCO
Jeffrey S. Young is Senior
Vice President of Young
Electric Sign Company.
YESCO, as the company
is known today, is a
remarkable story of the
American dream come
true. Jeff’s grandfather,
Thomas Young, founded the company in 1920 in
Ogden. YESCO is a family-owned provider of a full
spectrum of custom sign and lighting systems from
simple wayfinding plaques to towering, spectacular
displays. YESCO and its 1,400 employees serve
customers in Utah and throughout the country and
Canada. The founder enjoyed the saying, “The
difficult we do immediately; the impossible may take
a little longer.”

Bronson Sulser,
Kentson Car
Company,
Legacy Council
Chairperson
Bronson Sulser is President
of Kentson Car Company.
He started the company out
of a closet office back in 2000. Bronson believed that
he could change the way people felt about buying a
used car. The idea has grown into a company that is
nationally known for customer satisfaction and high
quality product. When he’s not taking care of one of
the many employees or customers, he is with his
very supportive wife and four beautiful daughters.

Kevin Guest,
USANA
Kevin Guest is the Chief
Executive Officer of USANA
Health Sciences, where
he has overseen record
company growth as well as
new product development,
strategic marketing, and
USANA’s audio, video, and event productions
worldwide. He is also a member of the board of
directors for the Direct Selling Association, and a
member of the CEO Council for the World Federation
of Direct Selling Associations. Prior to joining USANA,
Kevin was a managing partner at FMG, a video and
events production company. Kevin earned a BA in
Communications from Brigham Young University and
is an accomplished musician, playing at venues like
the Grand Ole Opry with rock and country superstars.

Kris Cappaert-
Primosic,
Blue Iguana
Mexican Restaurant
Kris Cappaert-Primosic is
the owner of the award-
winning Blue Iguana
Mexican Restaurant brand.
She and her devoted staff are happy to be
celebrating more than 20 years in business, serving
Utah’s most authentic Mexican cuisine. Since having
purchased a partner’s interest in 2014, she has
become the sole owner. Kris, along with her long-
term faithful staff, have enjoyed substantial year
over year revenue growth under her leadership.

Beth Colosimo,
MBA, Salt Lake
Community College
Beth Colosimo is an
Executive Director at
Salt Lake Community
College. Beth manages a
variety of programs that
help entrepreneurs and
small businesses get started and expand through
a variety of training and education workshops,
mentoring, and conferences. As director of the Small
Business Development Center, Beth and her team
counsel and mentor those looking to start their own
companies. She also oversees a business incubator
where start up companies work together in a shared
space to learn about being entrepreneurs and how
to grow their businesses.

Troy Olson,
Les Olson Company
Troy Olson began his days
at the family business as a
file clerk, and throughout his
38-year tenure at Les Olson
Company, he has always
loved and excelled in his
work. As current president
at Les Olson Company, he serves as a shareholder
and member of the board of directors. He also
currently serves on the Sharp Dealer Advisory
Council for the United States and works with all the
independent dealers in the Sharp family.

Troy’s hobbies include golfing, fly fishing, and Ultra
endurance running through the Wasatch Mountains.
He is married to the love of his life, Mindy, and they
have two children and three grandchildren.

Dan Young,
PC Laptops
Dan “The Laptop Man”
Young is the founder
and CEO of PC Laptops.
PC Laptops makes the
best custom-configured
computers and laptops
all covered by a lifetime
service guarantee. Dan considers himself a “video
game junkie” and has been programming video
games since he was 6 years old. After starting PC
Laptops, he has also founded successful technology
companies specializing in high-performance
gaming, enterprise cloud security, and remote
technical services. When he’s not visiting one of his
stores and making friends with customers, Young is
often mentoring young entrepreneurs.

BEST OF STATE LEGACY COUNCIL

11© 2025 BEST OF STATE

Tammy Leavitt,
Utah Athletic
Commission
Tammy Leavitt is a seasoned
public relations executive,
having served as the Public
Information Officer for the
Utah Olympic Public Safety
Command during the 2002
Winter Olympic Games, overseeing media and public
communication for more than 50 federal, state, and
local government agencies, including the FBI, Secret
Service, and Governor’s Office. Tammy later served
as the Director of Communications for the Utah
Department of Public Safety and Highway Patrol.
She was the Vice President of iKeepSafe, where
she worked to implement Internet safety programs
in elementary schools nationwide with the governors
and attorney generals of each state. She was recently
appointed by the Governor’s Office to serve as a
Commissioner for the Pete Suazo Utah Athletic
Commission, governing and regulating professional
and amateur combat sports for the State of Utah.

Michael Tobian,
Skylark Productions
Michael Tobian is a dynamic
entrepreneur and profession-
al musician recognized as
one of Utah Business Maga-
zine’s “40 Under 40.” He has
founded multiple internation-
ally successful businesses,
including Skylark Productions, Utah Live Bands,
Skylark Media, Empire Casino Parties, and more. As
a multi-instrumentalist, he has performed all over the
world, taught music at two universities (BYU and UVU)
and has ownership in many nationally touring acts. With
over 12 years as a business broker and consultant,
Michael has facilitated the sale of 100+ businesses,
earning national IBBA awards. His ventures have gar-
nered 49 Utah Best of State awards. Beyond business
and music, Michael is a fitness enthusiast and fitness
model, enjoying skiing, golfing, music, and culinary
arts. His multifaceted career reflects a commitment to
excellence and a passion for entrepreneurship and the
arts. Mr. Tobian is very honored to be a member of the
Best of State Legacy Council.

BEST OF STATE LEGACY COUNCIL
Kristin Schmidt,
Ivory Commercial
Kristin Schmidt is the VP
of Operations at Ivory
Commercial and oversees
all multifamily properties
within ICO, including Utah’s
18 premier apartment
communities, 4 regional
managers, and support staff. With over 25 years
of experience in property management in the Utah
and California multifamily markets, she currently
serves on the Rental Housing Association Board and
membership committee.

Melanie Robinson,
WEBB Audio Visual
Melanie Robinson, a Utah
native, received her MBA
at Stanford University
Graduate School of
Business before returning
to Utah to steer teams
focused on innovation
and technology. At WEBB, Melanie works with a
team of technologists, creatives, producers, and
builders to deliver world-class experiences in the
event and AV world.

12 © 2025 BEST OF STATE

Winner Selection

The judging process is one of the most important dimensions of Best of
State. The process is designed to make judging as impartial and objective
as possible. To that end, the organization decided that all judges should
determine their scores independently, without input from other judges. This
prevents any individual judge from exerting influence on any other judges.

Judges review the nominations online and also evaluate any other
submitted material, and assign three separate scores to each nominee.
There are a total of 100 points possible for each nominee. The points are

THE MEDAL
Winners in each category receive a Best of State Medal. The
medal is 2 inches in diameter and is minted in solid bronze
and plated in gold. The Best of State motto, “Excelling and
Surpassing All Else®” is inscribed into the edge. The medal
hangs from a custom-loomed double-thick neck ribbon,
edged in gold and imprinted with the Best of State logo. Best
of State winners also receive the right to display the Best of
State logo and year of award on business correspondence,
their website, and other promotional materials.

THE STATUE
From each of the ten general divisions, a single winner will receive the
Best of State Statue, the BOSS®. The 20-pound solid bronze sculpture
stands on a black granite pedestal on a bronze base. All bronze is
plated with 24 karat gold. Cast into the base are the words “Excelling
and Surpassing All Else®.”

THE AWARDS

The Awards
BESTof
STATE ®

weighted to reflect three specific judging criteria—Excellence, Innovation/
Creativity, and Contribution to Quality of Life in Utah.

Judging Criteria

Best of State seeks to recognize the people, organizations, and businesses
that are achieving, innovating, and improving the quality of life in Utah. The
Best of State judging criteria is specifically designed to consider factors that
don’t necessarily show up on the income statement.

woodlandparkdental.com
Implants - Dentures - Cosmetic
See website for all our services

13© 2025 BEST OF STATE

increase their chances of winning an award.
Sometimes sponsors win and sometimes they
do not. Some of them are nominees and some
are not. Best of State judges generally have no
idea of or interest in who sponsors the awards
program. By design, Best of State principals have
no influence in the judging. As difficult as it is to
inform a sponsor that they did not win, Best of
State requires that integrity and objectivity always
govern the judging process.

Fifty percent of the possible points are for
overall achievement and excellence in service,
products, or performance—including financial
performance where applicable. Another
thirty percent is for innovation, creativity,
and differentiation, and the remaining twenty
percent is for contributions that make Utah
a better place to live. In every category, there
are numerous ways to show that a nominee
measured up to the Best of State motto,
“Excelling and Surpassing All Else.”®

Tabulation and Certification of Results

The ballots are hand-delivered to the Gilbert
& Stewart accounting firm where the scores
are totaled and the totals are triple-checked
for accuracy. Gilbert & Stewart then notifies
Best of State of the medal winners. In each
major division, the judges select the most
outstanding medal winner, who will receive a
Best of State Statue.

Who Are the Judges?

Judges are selected based on their expertise
and credibility in their particular fields. Best
of State turns to professional associations,
universities, industry leaders, and chambers
of commerce for judge recommendations.
Judges serve as volunteers and donate many
hours to thoroughly review the nominations.
Best of State has purposely kept the judges’
names confidential to avoid any potential
lobbying from applicants, or even from
other judges. Many of the judges are high-
profile business and community leaders,
and while releasing their names would only
add to the credibility of the judging process,
Best of State honors their preference to
remain anonymous.

Ensuring Objectivity

Best of State goes to great lengths to ensure
objectivity and avoid conflicts of interest in
judging. Judges are instructed to abstain
from scoring all nominees in a category
where they feel they have any personal
conflict. If Best of State is made aware of a
conflict of interest, that judge’s scores are
dropped from the appropriate category.

Many ask about the influence of sponsorship on
the results. As much as Best of State appreciates
and is grateful to its generous sponsors, sponsors
are clearly informed that sponsorship does not

THE AWARDS

Results tabulated and certified by
Gilbert & Stewart CPA’s

Independent Living
Assisted Living
Memory Care

All-day dining
24/7 care services
Full calendar of social and
fitness activities

To Learn More Visit: www.stellarliving.com
B o u n t i f u l | S a l t L a k e C i t y | S o u t h J o r d a n | P r o v o

Find a continuum of care
for your loved one in one
of our five award-winning
locations across the state.

14 © 2025 BEST OF STATE

SOFIA TURNER
MISS UTAH TEEN USA
AWARD ATTENDANT

Sofia Forrest Turner, 18, is a de-
termined and diligent hard
worker, propelled by self-motiva-
tion and an unwavering commit-
ment to her passions. As a resil-
ient survivor of Stevens-Johnson
syndrome, a rare disorder, she
was inspired to create her own non-
profit organization to gener-
ate awareness. In the fall Sofia will
begin college at UC Berkeley studying marine science and integrative biology. She
will also perform on campus and around the country as a member of the divi-
sion 1 athletics Dance team. Sofia loves to travel and has learned both French and
Mandarin Chinese, receiving a first place medal in the national French contest
and her Utah seal of Biliteracy for French and English. Sofia also has her own
business, Sofia’s Soap Lab, where she designs her own line of soaps and skin care
and hopes to teach other women the power of being their own boss. When Sofia
isn’t raising community awareness, she enjoys playing piano and acrylic painting.

ALYSSA CHANDLER
MISS UTAH USA
AWARD ATTENDANT

Alyssa is a dynamic Japanese American with
a diverse background in service, sales, and
mentorship of young women. She spent 18
months on a service mission in Lima, Peru,
teaching English and piano, aiding addiction
recovery, and strengthening communities,
while becoming fluent in Spanish. With 4 years
of door-to-door sales experience, she was the
rookie of the year as the only woman on her
team. Passionate about financial literacy, she
mentors women in entrepreneurship. A 17-
year pianist and a triathlete, she encourages
others to exercise not only their hearts, but
also their minds.

BESTof
STATE ®

HEIDI HATCH
MASTER OF CEREMONY

Heidi Hatch joined KUTV 2News in 2011 as an anchor and
reporter, immediately jumping into the 2012 presidential
election coverage. She had previously anchored for KPAX
in Montana, for FOX 35 in Florida, and for Good Morning
Utah at ABC4, where her live reporting the day Elizabeth
Smart was found was nominated for an Emmy.

Heidi also contributed work as a guest on The O’Reilly Factor,
Larry King Live, Good Morning America, and Nancy Grace.
Heidi also covered the 2002 Winter Olympics and the search
for Lori Hacking, and she returned to the Pentagon on the
first anniversary of 9/11 with the family of a Utah victim.

Heidi has worked closely with March of Dimes as a
spokesperson and honorary chair for the annual March
for Babies. Heidi and her husband, Derek, have two
children and a shih tzu. They love skiing in Utah’s world-
famous snow.

MARK KOELBEL
MASTER OF CEREMONY

Mark has been recognized for his professional approach
to journalism in covering news stories and displaying
a heartfelt interest in his community. He has received
numerous broadcast awards from Associated Press, United
Press International, and RTNDA, including Best Newscast,
Best Enterprise Journalism, and Best Spot News Coverage.

Some of his proudest moments include covering Hurricane
Hugo in South Carolina, the Gulf War/Desert Storm, and the
Masters Golf Tournament. Mark prides himself in knowing
that he will always go the extra mile to get the story, even if
that means chasing a hurricane, flying with the Blue Angels,
or bungee jumping.

Mark is very active in the community speaking to special
interest groups of all kinds. Mark is married to Pamela
Wilkie Koelbel. He enjoys tennis, basketball, and playing
the drums.

2025 BEST OF STATE GALA

15© 2025 BEST OF STATE

CALEB CHAPMAN

Caleb is a GRAMMY-
nominated band leader,
executive, producer, speaker,
author, and saxophonist.
He is the founder of Caleb
Chapman’s Soundhouse, the
most award-winning youth
music performance program
in the United States.

Over the last 25 years, Caleb has had the opportunity
to work with scores of GRAMMY-winning artists. In
addition to leading and performing with the Osmond
Chapman Orchestra, he has recorded with such well-
known acts as Kaskade, the National Parks, and Sunfall
Festival, and was a touring member of the multi-
platinum selling Neon Trees. He currently serves as
music director for the talented Zachary Levi (star of
Shazam, Chuck, and Tangled).

Caleb’s Soundhouse bands have been honored with a
staggering 128 DownBeat Awards recognizing the very
best bands and soloists in the world.

SERENA MACKERELL

Serena Mackerell, Soprano, is a Utah native who has captivated audiences across
Europe and Brazil. She is a resident soloist with the Draper Philharmonic and has
performed with the Utah Opera Company, Utah Symphony, and Utah’s Lyrical Opera.
Some of her favorite roles include Nannetta in Falstaff and Fiona in Brigadoon. Serena
is currently performing as Maria in The Sound of Music with Draper Arts, continuing
to share her passion for music and storytelling on stage.

2025 BEST OF STATE GALA

DUSTIN HALLIDAY

Dustin Halliday, Tenor, has enjoyed performing as a soloist since a very young age. In
recent years, he has been featured in several productions of the Draper Philharmonic
& Choral Society, notably performing the role of Thomas from Lamb of God, singing
“Good Morning” from Singin’ in the Rain, and “Bring Him Home” from Les Miserables.
He thoroughly enjoys the opportunity to uplift lives through impactful music. Dustin
resides in Riverton with his wife, Julia, and their three children.

COOPER BROWN

Cooper Brown started his DJ & MC career in southern California
in 2009. He is known for his charismatic personality and ability
to create customized musical experiences at corporate events
and weddings. His unique hybrid band incorporates live
musicians who improvise with his curated tracks. Cooper says
he has the best job in the world: making people happy.

16 © 2025 BEST OF STATE

2025 BEST OF STATE GALA
LYCEUM PHILHARMONIC AT
AMERICAN HERITAGE SCHOOL

Lyceum Philharmonic at American Heritage School, led by Kayson Brown, is the
premier ensemble of the Lyceum Youth Orchestras—one of the largest and most
comprehensive youth orchestra programs in the nation. Known for its commitment
to excellence, faith, and patriotism, the program serves over 450 families through
ten audition-only ensembles at American Heritage School campuses in Salt Lake
City and American Fork. Its members come from schools across Utah and regularly
perform with industry-leading guest artists. Most recently, the ensemble appeared at
David Geffen Hall at Lincoln Center with Grammy-nominated violinist Jenny Oaks
Baker. Lyceum Philharmonic has reached the top of the Classical Billboard Charts

THE SOUNDHOUSE’S
LITTLE BIG BAND

A feeder to the award-winning Crescent Super
Band, the Little Big Band is Utah’s only band strictly
dedicated to preserving America’s rich swing
tradition and the finest in the world for their young
age—all band members are between the ages of 8-15!
Complete with their signature zoot suits and fedoras,
the 22-piece big band has a performance resume that
includes many of the biggest names in jazz. They
are currently the only band of their type that has

CALEB CHAPMAN’S CRESCENT SUPER BAND

Organized in 2001 under the direction of GRAMMY-nominated band leader, producer, author, and educator, Caleb
Chapman, the Crescent Super Band has frequently been hailed as one of the best professional bands in the world
to be comprised entirely of young musicians. With a youthful energy and nearly unbelievable performance level,
the band has performed their hip, intelligent big band arrangements for thousands. The band has also performed
at major festivals around the globe including Germany, Cuba, England, China, Spain, The Netherlands, Italy, France,
Switzerland, and more! Their crowning performance was a headlining debut at a packed Carnegie Hall in May of 2013.
On multiple occasions since 2007, DownBeat Magazine has recognized the Crescent Super Band with their
coveted “Downbeat Award” recognizing them as one of the top young big bands in the world. In 2023 the band
won DownBeat Awards in three separate categories—jazz, rock and Latin! The band has also won 26 “Best of State”
awards for Utah, including 16 consecutive years as Utah’s “Best Professional Band.” In 2016 they were featured at
Wynton Marsalis’s prestigious “Essentially Ellington” festival at Jazz at Lincoln Center.

been featured multiple times at the Jazz
Education Network’s Annual International
Conference. They have also performed for
the National Governors Association and
have been named the best junior high
age big band in the nation by DownBeat
Magazine on multiple occasions! The band
is directed by an alumnus of the group,
Kaden Larm.

on three occasions and has amassed hundreds of millions of views and streams on
YouTube and Spotify. Their latest album, Counting Christmas Blessings, featuring Tony-
nominated Laura Osnes, is available on all streaming platforms. In all its endeavors,
Lyceum remains dedicated to cultivating a love of elevated music, faith, and patriotism—
changing hearts and transforming lives. Visit LyceumPhilharmonic.com to learn more.

HOT HOUSE WEST SWING ORCHESTRA

The Hot House West Swing Orchestra is a 14-piece
ensemble based in Salt Lake City that is redefining what
a swing orchestra can be. Founded by musicians Nathan
Royal and James Martak, the band began as a student
ensemble at the University of Utah. Inspired by the music
of Django Reinhardt, their studies took them across
Europe, from late-night jams in Paris to festivals
in Belgium. When Dr. David Baker joined the
group, their passion for swing music evolved
into a bigger vision: to build a thriving acoustic
music scene rooted in education, mentorship,
and community engagement. With that, Hot

House West became a nonprofit organization, and the
Swing Orchestra was born.

Blending Gypsy jazz, western swing, trad jazz, and bebop,
the orchestra features a pared-down horn section, a
double-guitar rhythm section, and no piano—bringing
agility and freshness to the traditional big band format.
The band’s arrangements, crafted by staff arranger Dr.

David Baker, honor swing-era traditions while sounding
strikingly modern. Vocalist Hayley Kirkland brings
showmanship and style, while Nathan Royal's guitar
lines anchor us to the Django Reinhardt style.

Through initiatives like their Swing Renaissance series,
the band fosters intergenerational connection, music
education, and dance culture. Their viral videos and
globally performed arrangements highlight their
growing influence. With original compositions,
acclaimed musicianship, and a mission to make
swing music accessible and alive, the Hot House
West Swing Orchestra is reshaping the future of
jazz while honoring its past.

17© 2025 BEST OF STATE

18 © 2025 BEST OF STATE

ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT MEDAL WINNERS
LITERARY ARTS

Book - Instructional
Renatus
Renatus is the unsurpassed gateway to becoming
a successful real estate investor. Their educational
platform is a one-stop destination for resources
ranging from live educational events to
comprehensive online learning tools. Established
in 2011, the mission at Renatus is to equip aspiring
investors with the wisdom and expertise to flourish
in the world of real estate investing. They keep their
content consistently updated and refined, delivering
actionable and dependable knowledge to help
students excel in their real estate investment journey.

Children’s Book
Laurie C. Tye
Laurie C. Tye holds degrees in Education, Creative
Writing, and American Sign Language. She graduated
from Brigham Young University and studied in Europe.
She followed her passion and taught school for 15 years
and continued to write. Her first book “The Animal
In Me” was published in 2005. She enjoys traveling
around doing book shows and meeting people. She
lives in Salt Lake City where she writes children’s
books, short stories, and poetry.

Fiction
Heather B. Moore
A native of Orem, Heather Moore is the author of over
a hundred published novels, thirty-five novellas, and
has won awards in writing including the Whitney
Award, the Rone Award, the Maggie Award, and the
Golden Quill. In February 2014, Heather became a
USA Today bestselling author and has been on the list
four more times since.

Magazine
Mountain
Mountain was founded as Mountain Express
Magazine in Park City, Utah, in 1992 by publisher Liz
DeSimone Field. A nature enthusiast and longtime
resident of Park City and Heber City, Liz translated
her love of Utah, its people, industry, wildlife, and
unparalleled beauty into a first-class magazine.
Over the past 32 years, Mountain has transformed
from a humble dining guide into a sophisticated
publication devoted to all aspects of mountain living
and high-altitude adventure. Today it is the premier
guide to Park City’s and Heber Valley’s dining,
shopping, and lifestyle.

Non-fiction
Lisa Mangum
Lisa Mangum has worked in publishing for more than
twenty-five years. She has been the managing editor
for Shadow Mountain since 2014 and has worked
with several award-winning and New York Times
best-selling authors. She is an author of four national
best-selling YA novels. Her most recent book, “Write
Fearless. Edit Smart. Get Published: A Master Class
for Fiction Writers,” was released in November 2024
and is the outcome of teaching classes about the craft
of writing and editing.

Poetry
Grumpy Publications
Thal Dixon has been writing stories and poetry for his
family since the eighth grade. As life continued and he
became a parent, he started making up more stories
for his kids. In 2011, he teamed with Jim Hawks, a
talented illustrator, to form Grumpy Publications and
began publishing his stories and poetry, which have
won numerous awards and touched the lives of tens
of thousands of children.

Screenwriting
Vid Victory
Vid Victory was created to help businesses become
victorious getting their messaging out to the masses
through the use of video. Many people have a
message to share but do not know how to convey that
message in a way that is effective and engaging. If you
fall short on the effectiveness then the message isn’t
conveyed. If you fall short on the engagement, people
won’t stick around long enough to hear the message
in the first place. That is where Tom and Brian come
in with Vid Victory.

Trade Publication
Renatus
Renatus is the unsurpassed gateway to becoming
a successful real estate investor. Their educational
platform is a one-stop destination for resources
ranging from live educational events to
comprehensive online learning tools. Established
in 2011, the mission at Renatus is to equip aspiring
investors with the wisdom and expertise to flourish
in the world of real estate investing. They keep their
content consistently updated and refined, delivering
actionable and dependable knowledge to help
students excel in their real estate investment journey.

Writers’ Services
Comma Copywriters
Founded in 2016, Comma Copywriters is a certified
woman-owned marketing writing company. They have
45 talented team members and their professional writers
and editors serve mid- to enterprise-level companies.
They help smart marketers save time by creating content
worth reading. They write and edit high-quality blog
posts, case studies, white papers, marketing emails, and
more. At Comma, every word counts.

PERFORMING ARTS

A Cappella Group
Octappella
Octappella has been performing together for 22
years. Seamlessly blending their individual talents
into one cohesive vocal team, Octappella has
performed for intimate gatherings such as weddings
and small company parties, as well as large venues
such as the 2002 Olympic Games and Fortune 500
corporate galas.

Actor
David F. Pack, Ph.D.
David has been cast in principal/lead roles in more
than a dozen musicals and plays at various theaters,
equating hundreds of performances. Consequently,
he has rehearsed in 3 productions simultaneously
many times. With his high energy and expressive
style, he has received positive reviews from various
theater blogs and newspaper articles.

Artistic Talent Representation
Utah Live Bands, LLC
Utah Live Bands has become one of the biggest music
and entertainment talent agencies in the country.
They represent hundreds of bands and entertainers,
approximately half of which were actually produced
and created by Utah Live Bands. They have contracted
performers for several network television shows and
have produced events all over Europe, North America,
and South America.

Children’s Choral Group
One Voice Children’s Choir
The One Voice Children’s Choir is a non-profit,
Salt Lake City based musical performance group
composed of children ages 4–18. The choir originated
from the 2002 Winter Olympics and is directed by
Masa Fukuda, who continues to lead the choir after 22
years and custom crafts each musical arrangement.
The choir’s mission is to provide entertainment and
community engagement while empowering youth to
become the leaders of tomorrow.

Division Chair
Arts & Entertainment
Bruce Edwards

19© 2025 BEST OF STATE

Children’s Orchestra
Sistema Utah
Providing free comprehensive music education after
school since 2013, Sistema offers violin, viola, cello,
clarinet, trumpet, saxophone, trombone, piano,
flute, percussion, and bucket band/taiko drumming.
A feature of their program is their performance
groups “Sistema Strings” and “Secondary Sistema
Strings” consisting of their most advanced violin,
viola, cello, and bass students that offer service
concerts in the community.

Children’s Performing Group
One Voice Children’s Choir
The One Voice Children’s Choir provides
opportunities for children ages 4–18 to cultivate an
appreciation for music and share the talents they
develop with a global community. These children
are exceptional, memorizing multiple choir parts
and solos and often performing with professional
musicians. The choir has received numerous awards
including the John Lennon International Music
Award and the Utah Music Award for Best Cover.

Choral Group
Salt Lake Choral Artists
The Salt Lake Choral Artists is one of America’s
premier community choirs, continuing a tradition
of superb choral singing that began as the Jay Welch
Chorale more than 40 years ago. The group has
now expanded to include a large concert choir, a
women’s choir, a men’s choir, a chamber choir, a
youth choir, a children’s choir, and a professional-
level touring ensemble.

Choreographer
Shani Robison
Shani Robison earned her B.A. in Dance (1995)
and her M.A. in Dance with a Performance and
Choreography emphasis (1999) from Brigham Young
University. After leaving a 19-year tenured professor
position at BYU, Shani transitioned the past 2-3 years
to another chapter of her professional career that is
now fully immersed in the Utah private sector. Shani
is now the Co-Artistic Director of Chrysalis Ballet,
a new professional ballet company. Additionally,
Shani teaches/choreographs for professional dance
companies/schools throughout Utah.

Community Arts
Sandy Arts Guild
Founded in 1985, the Sandy Arts Guild is a
501(c)3 nonprofit providing community theater
programming to Salt Lake County. They support
emerging as well as established talent. The Guild’s
theatrical programming impacts over 10,000 annually
and provides 30 events and theatrical nights.

Community Music Program
Gifted Music School
Gifted Music School provides unparalleled music
lessons with world-class faculty, and it offers them to
individuals of all socioeconomic backgrounds. This is
accomplished through three programs: GRIT, where
the faculty teach free lessons and classes at Title I
schools; Preparatory, where anyone who wishes to
learn can enroll; and Conservatory, an audition-
based and tuition-free program, which has sent eight
students to Juilliard since its founding in 2009.

Community Orchestra
Southwest Symphony Orchestra
With more than 70 volunteer musicians, the
Southwest Symphony performs 11 concerts each
year reaching more than 12,000 patrons. The
symphony’s concert series includes classical, sacred,
and entertaining “pops” music, with multimedia
elements, choreography, and guest artists. Their
mission is to inspire and enrich audiences through
the transformative power of symphonic music.

Community Theater
Sandy Arts Guild
Founded in 1985, the Sandy Arts Guild’s mission
has been to develop, present and engage residents
of Sandy and the surrounding area in community
and artistic experiences. The Sandy Arts Guild is
committed to providing community outreach to
enrich and develop awareness and appreciation
of the significance of all arts forms. They support
emerging as well as established talent. The Guild
impacts over 89,000 annually and produced 67 events
and theatrical nights in 2024.

Dance Group
Odyssey Dance Theatre
Founded in 1994 and directed by Derryl Yeager,
former Ballet West Principal, Broadway, Television,
and Film veteran, Odyssey Dance Theatre explodes
with world-class bravado, passionate charm, and
choreographic invention, combining the classical
virtues of ballet with the attack of jazz, the freedom
of modern dance, the raw energy of Hip-Hop, the
syncopated rhythms of tap, the fluid partnering of
ballroom, and the spirit of Broadway and Vaudeville
to create a fresh dance vocabulary and entertainment
genre that engages audiences across the country and
around the world.

Event DJ
DJ Cooper Brown -
One Above Entertainment
Cooper Brown at One Above Entertainment started
as a DJ and MC at age 16 and decided to go full-time
in 2020. Despite the pandemic, his business grew and
he hired two DJs to work with him. He continues to
provide his high-energy and personalized DJ services.

ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT MEDAL WINNERS
Instrumental Group
Caleb Chapman’s
Crescent Super Band
The Crescent Super Band is based in American
Fork, but the members come from a dozen high
schools across the state to perform hip, intelligent
arrangements of the American standards. They
have been featured on the main stages at many
of the world’s largest music festivals. These young
musicians work with top tier artists on a regular basis,
and in 2020, DownBeat Magazine again (for the 9th
time) recognized the Crescent Super Band as the Top
Youth Big Band in the world.

Musical Instruments
Sistema Utah
Sistema Utah is a free after-school music program
where kids can choose from a variety of group
instruments, including violin, viola, cello, piano,
guitar, flute, trumpet, French horn, saxophone,
clarinet, trombone, percussion, and bucket band.
With 2 locations, Sistema serves close to 350 low-
income students.

Orchestra
Lyceum Philharmonic at
American Heritage School
Lyceum Philharmonic at American Heritage School,
led by Kayson Brown, has reached the top of the
Billboard Charts with multiple albums, was featured
on PBS Great Performances, recorded for SONY
Masterworks, and has reached more than 350 million
on streaming and YouTube! These accomplished
young musicians come from more than 30 schools
across the state of Utah to participate in the after-
school Lyceum Orchestras Program at American
Heritage School in American Fork, Utah.

Party/Cover Band
Rhinestone Rodeo Band
Rhinestone Rodeo is Utah’s premier party band,
specializing in high-end weddings and corporate
events. The band brings big-stage energy and
musicianship to even small venues, having shared the
stage with LeAnn Rimes, Journey, Imagine Dragons,
Kiss, Tim McGraw, Dierks Bentley, and Incubus.
Utilizing cutting-edge automation and modern
music technology, Rhinestone Rodeo delivers
a high-energy, professional-grade performance
with a compact team, ensuring efficiency without
compromising quality.

Professional Theater
Hale Centre Theatre
Hale Centre Theatre (HCT) has been providing family-
friendly theater for 36 years. In 2020, HCT performed
664 shows for a quarter million people. Hale has also
hosted 11 regional and national premieres in the past
several years, and its new Performing Arts Centre
has one of the most advanced stages in the nation
with the ability to incorporate fire, water, flying, and
moving sets.

20 © 2025 BEST OF STATE

ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT MEDAL WINNERS
Youth Small Ensemble
Sistema Utah
Sistema Utah is a free after-school music program
where kids can choose from a variety of group
instruments, including violin, viola, cello, piano,
guitar, flute, trumpet, French horn, saxophone,
clarinet, trombone, percussion, and bucket band.
With 2 locations, Sistema serves close to 350 low-
income students.

VISUAL ARTS

Carving
Tod L. Wadsworth
Tod Wadsworth has created hundreds of original
carvings as part of panoramic murals on bridges
and highway structures throughout Utah. He is
constantly evolving his methods and materials,
taking traditionally unattractive mediums, such as
concrete and steel, and creating beautiful, lasting
artwork. Most of his recent artwork is glass etching
and wood carving on guns.

Ceramics/Glass
Denver Whaley
Denver Whaley, a senior at Juan Diego Catholic
High School in Draper, Utah, embarked on her
ceramics journey just over a year ago. Initially
enrolling in a ceramics class to fulfill an art credit, her
determination led to diligent practice, often staying
late to hone her skills. This dedication and talent
culminated in winning the “award with distinction” at
the YoungArts competition in the visual arts category,
making her only the second Utah student to achieve
this honor in the competition’s 40-year history.

Commercial Photography
BW Productions
BW Productions is a leading commercial
photography company specializing in corporate,
event, professional headshots, product branding,
and lifestyle photography. With years of experience,
they have developed a reputation for producing high-
quality, polished images that meet the needs of top
businesses and organizations. Their professional
style is particularly sought after for conferences and
business gatherings to capture pivotal moments.

Documentary
Davis School District -
Communication Department
To bring awareness to autism and students with
this invisible disability, the Davis School District
Communication Department created a seven-minute
short documentary entitled “Different is Great.” The
video features three educational leaders from Valley
View, Creekside, and Foxboro elementary schools
talking about their own amazing children: Jacob,

Kaden, and Piper. These students all happen to be on
the autism spectrum. The video shares their unique
and exceptional stories to inspire others to see
challenges as superpowers.

Drawing/Illustration
Grumpy Publications
Thal Dixon started Grumpy Publications with a vision
of creating a legacy of inspiring young children to
read more and learn great lessons along the way. Thal
believes that by including great illustrations, kids will
be lost in the pages and soak up the true message of
the story.

Instructional/Corporate Video
BW Productions
BW Productions is a full-service photo and video
production agency that specializes in corporate
storytelling. Brent Uberty founded the company in
2013 as a freelance photographer and videographer
and has grown it into a media production house
by forging client relationships in the nonprofit,
education, and business sectors.

Live Streaming
WEBB Production
WEBB was able to hit the virtual ground running
in early 2020 when events switched from in-
person to all-virtual. WEBB helps clients in finding
speakers, developing ideas, brainstorming content
development strategies, developing graphic and
video content, and implementing pre-recorded vs.
livestream strategies. They know everything there is
to know to execute a spectacular virtual event.

Murals & Large Format Art
Adrenaline Murals
This talented and giving team began as friends and
family creating chalk art murals for the Foster Care
Foundation and other community organizations
before doing it professionally for Adrenaline Murals.
Adrenaline Murals LLC is now licensed as a General
Contractor for the state of Utah, although they
limit their services to mural and other specialty
commercial painting. They are members of the
Painting Contractors Association (PCA) and
accredited with the Better Business Bureau (BBB).

Pet/Wildlife Photography
Fuzzy Love Photography
Dawn McBride with Fuzzy Love Photography has
become the go-to photographer for pet portraits.
Specializing strictly in pets (and occasionally their
humans), she’s been able to hone her craft to achieve
exceptional results that have earned her a 5-star
Google rating, loyal clients, state fair awards, and
spotlights in national magazines.

Semi-Professional Theater
West Valley Arts
With a long history of community theater
programming at the Utah Cultural Celebration Center,
West Valley City decided to launch a professional
theater program at the West Valley Performing Arts
Center in 2019. Shows are produced using local
professional talent as well as the Tony Award-winning
Utah Shakespeare Festival. Since 2004, West Valley
Arts has supported West Valley’s rich history of public
art, festivals, concerts, cultural programming, and
now, top-tier theater.

Specialty Act
Rhinestone Rodeo Band
Rhinestone Rodeo is Utah’s premier party band,
specializing in high-end weddings and corporate
events. The band brings big-stage energy and
musicianship to even small venues, having shared the
stage with LeAnn Rimes, Journey, Imagine Dragons,
Kiss, Tim McGraw, Dierks Bentley, and Incubus.
Utilizing cutting-edge automation and modern
music technology, Rhinestone Rodeo delivers
a high-energy, professional-grade performance
with a compact team, ensuring efficiency without
compromising quality.

Vocal Group
One Voice Children’s Choir
One Voice Children’s Choir consists of more than 200
children who travel from across the state of Utah and
even Wyoming to rehearse and perform each week.
A typical annual calendar includes more than 60
local, national, and international performances. The
children’s impact is greatly expanded by their
YouTube channel, which has more than 3.5 million
subscribers and 630 million views.

Vocal/Instrumental Band
The Hot House West Swing Orchestra
The Hot House West Swing Orchestra has firmly
established itself as a leader in the jazz and swing
music community, recognized for its outstanding
performances, artistic excellence, and cultural
impact. This 14-piece powerhouse encapsulates the
joy, energy, and rhythm of swing music, blending
Gypsy jazz, western swing, trad jazz, and bebop into
an electrifying experience.

Youth Instrumental Group
Caleb Chapman’s Little Big Band
Complete with zoot suits and fedoras, this 22-piece
big band recreates the biggest hits of the big band
era. All band members are between the ages of 12
and 15, and their extraordinary talent has brought
the opportunity to perform with top-tier, Grammy-
winning musicians and has earned prestigious
awards and invitations to international jazz
conferences and festivals.

© 2025 BEST OF STATE 21

Portrait Photography
Busath Photography
Busath Photography is celebrating 48 years in
Salt Lake City. The Busath team specializes in
family and children’s portraiture, and has become
so famous, they have been invited to speak on
portraiture to professionals in the U.S., Australia,
England, Italy, Canada, Japan, and Korea. They
have been featured 4 times on the cover of
Professional Photographer magazine.

Public Art
Tremonton City
Tremonton City has had wall murals adorning its
streetscape since the 1970s. In 2013 the city made
an inventory of current public art, and created a
Mural Program to attract people to the downtown
area. Within a two-year period, the City had
commissioned 5 wall murals, and has completed
8 murals over the last 7 years, with a new mural
currently being planned and adding 2 additional
sculptures to its public art collection.

Publication
Mountain
Mountain was founded as Mountain Express Magazine
in Park City, Utah, in 1992 by publisher Liz DeSimone
Field. A nature enthusiast and longtime resident of
Park City and Heber City, Liz translated her love of
Utah, its people, industry, wildlife, and unparalleled
beauty into a first-class magazine. Over the past 32
years, Mountain has transformed from a humble
dining guide into a sophisticated publication devoted
to all aspects of mountain living and high-altitude
adventure. Today it is the premier guide to Park City’s
and Heber Valley’s dining, shopping, and lifestyle.

Real Estate Media
Monarca Media
Starting in March of 2018, Monarca Media had a
simple goal: help real estate agents and professionals
in the home industry step up their marketing game

with quality photos and videos. Their passion for
making properties stand out comes from knowing
strong and creative visuals attract buyers and tell the
right story of a property.

Sculpture
Tod L. Wadsworth
With hundreds of sculptures adorning our freeways,
roads, parks, buildings, and residential areas, Tod
Wadsworth has enhanced our communities with a
visual legacy. He is ever expanding his influence, and
is even sharing his art with surrounding states. The
scale, color, texture, and detail of each piece reflects
his artistic vision, painstaking hours of labor, and
disciplined technique.

Studios & Creative Spaces
Cutthroat Grip, Lighting & Stage
Cutthroat Grip, Lighting & Stage is more than just
a sound stage—it’s a creative hub designed to
serve filmmakers, photographers, and artists in
Utah. Founded in 2023 by the team behind BW
Productions, Cutthroat was created to fill a gap in the
local production community: a high-end, accessible
space for film and photography professionals to
bring their visions to life. From commercial shoots
to independent passion projects, Cutthroat provides
a fully equipped sound stage, grip and lighting
rentals, and a collaborative environment that fosters
creativity and innovation.

Textile Arts
Snap Pop Party
Miranda Thompson and her husband, Tyler, had been
running a successful photo booth rental business
for a few years when Covid-19 hit and, all at once,
shut down the events industry altogether. Miranda
realized that even though we were no longer allowed
to gather, people were no less excited to celebrate the
milestones and accomplishments of the people they
loved, and she started brainstorming other ways to
bring people together, safely from a distance. A few
months into the pandemic, Snap Pop Party was born.

Videography
Vid Victory
Vid Victory drives innovation in AI-powered video
solutions while maintaining a strong foundation in
traditional video production. By offering custom AI
avatars, high-quality animation, engaging scripted
content, and a commitment to storytelling, the
company remains at the forefront of the evolving
video landscape. While they lead the way in AI video
production, the company also continues to embrace
traditional video storytelling, producing television
and video series while actively supporting the arts
in Utah.

Wedding Photography
Pepper Nix Photographers
No bride will tell you to get a photo of her grandmother
crying, but that image of Grandma, smiling through
tears of joy at her wedding, becomes priceless.
Pepper Nix Photographers documents the day as it
organically unfolds. Every wedding is approached
with the wish that when generations look back on
these pictures, on their beginnings and where they
came from, that they will know they were brought into
a world and a family filled with love and with hope.

Wedding Videography
Chris McClain Films
Since 2007, Chris McClain Films has been setting the
standard for wedding videography in Utah. Locally,
he has been an active leader in the Utah Professional
Videographers Association (UPVA), where his work
has consistently earned top honors at annual Creative
Wedding Film competitions. With an unwavering
dedication to the fine art of cinematic storytelling,
Chris has also earned worldwide recognition,
including multiple prestigious International Telly
Awards. His reputation for excellence has attracted
couples from across the globe, taking him from Utah
to Europe, Southeast Asia, and as far as Australia.

MILLER ARTS CENTER
SOUTH JORDAN, UT

22 © 2025 BEST OF STATE

BUSINESS SERVICES MEDAL WINNERS
range from higher education to corporate, sports and
recreation, and performing arts facilities.

Commercial Building Subcontractor
RGS Exteriors
RGS has grown from a father and son one-truck
company to over 60 employees and sub-contractors,
making them the largest rain gutter and siding
company in Utah. They install rain gutter, leaf
protection, ice melting systems, siding, stucco,
stone, and windows. RGS Exteriors has continued to
demonstrate quality and excellence in performance,
products, and services.

Community Bank
TAB Bank
TAB Bank is a technology-driven, online bank
serving small businesses, families, and individuals
nationwide since 1998. Their governing philosophy is
that great people create a great customer experience,
leading to great financials for companies and
consumers alike.

Construction - Commercial
ICO Construction
ICO Multifamily Development (ICO) has developed
and overseen the construction of the most
multifamily units in Utah State since 2011. They
develop communities that provide the quality of life
people want to live. Formed in 2009, ICO develops
only class A+ apartment home communities within
the state of Utah and has created a unique and
thriving culture as they develop, build, own, and
manage each apartment community.

Construction – Heavy
Ralph L. Wadsworth
Construction Company
Named for the company’s founder, Ralph L.
Wadsworth Construction Company is a heavy
civil and highway contractor celebrating its 50th
anniversary this year. Founded in Utah, the company
got its start building specialized concrete projects,
roads, and bridges. Today they build facilities
for water treatment plants, airports, universities,
industrial complexes, emergency railroad and bridge
replacements, and some of the largest transportation
projects in the state.

Corporate Production Services
Skylark Productions
Skylark Productions is a premier full-service event
production company that provides audio/visual
(AV) services, entertainment, and full-scale event
management for corporate and luxury events
worldwide. They are an industry leader in event

Brand/Product Design
Olive & Cocoa
Olive & Cocoa is a catalog and web-based direct
marketing company founded and owned by husband-
and-wife direct marketing professionals Greg and Lisa
Berglund. The company has created, merchandised,
and marketed nearly 5,000 hardline, softline, edible,
floral, apparel, and keepsake gifts since 2009. Olive
& Cocoa is renowned for their exclusive fresh floral
arrangements shipped in specialty containers.

Building Maintenance
Far West Roofing
With over 20 years of experience and an A+ rating
from the Better Business Bureau, Far West Roofing
has established itself as a leader in the roofing
industry. Through continuous innovation, superior
craftsmanship, and a deep commitment to integrity,
the company has built a reputation for excellence.
By investing in technology, prioritizing employee
well-being, and consistently improving processes,
Far West Roofing delivers high-quality, long-lasting
roofing solutions to its customers.

Cabinetry & Finishes
Allen Brothers Cabinet Painting
Allen Brothers Cabinet Painting is a locally owned and
operated company specializing in high-end cabinet
refinishing. With 20 years of painting experience and
over 1,500 kitchens completed, they have built a strong
reputation for delivering exceptional craftsmanship
and durable finishes. Allen Brothers is known
for its professionalism, reliability, and customer-
focused approach. Trusted by homeowners, general
contractors, and cabinet builders, Allen Brothers
continues to set a standard for excellence in cabinet
refinishing throughout Utah.

Commercial Animal Care
Poop Scoop Utah
Poop Scoop Utah, started in 2018, has now been
operating for six years. They started out as a small
family business where the owner went out and
scooped the yards, and his wife answered the calls
and made the schedules. They have now grown to
having over 60 people working for the company and
thousands of clients serviced each year!

Commercial Architecture
Method Studio
Method Studio is a full-service architectural and design
firm in downtown Salt Lake City with a reputation for
integrity, quality, and design innovation that meets
owners’ budgets and objectives. Method’s leadership
includes award-winning licensed architects, interior
designers, and graphic designers, and their projects

3rd Party Warehousing & Distribution
Quality Distribution, LLC
Quality Distribution has been in business since
1995. Over its 28-year history, customers have
expressed their satisfaction, gratitude, and favorable
impressions for the way business is conducted and
client products are handled. Customer satisfaction
coupled with numerous regulatory and certifying
auditors scoring QDI above 98% makes QDI the
preferred provider for 3PL warehousing and
distribution services in Utah.

Accounting
Pack Tax
Pack Tax began January 2018 to zero clients. Within
five years, they became a seven-figure business and
by year six had grown their client base to over 6,000.
Their vision is to change the tax preparations industry
to make it more affordable and accessible to regular
people. Founder, Kristy Pack, is a recent Athena
International Nominee, Utah Business 40 under
40 recipient, and currently serves as an Honorary
Commander at Hill Air Force Base.

Advertising Agencies
Disruptive Advertising
Disruptive Advertising is one of the top-rated digital
marketing agencies in the country. The company
is redefining industry standards for transparency,
strategy, and results-driven marketing and is
recognized as a Clutch 1000 Agency, a Google
Premier Partner, and a Top Workplace, setting the bar
for excellence in digital advertising.

Alternative Health Care
Maple Mountain
Mental Health & Wellness
Maple Mountain Mental Health and Wellness,
formerly known as Maple Mountain Recovery, was
established as an Adult Residential Substance Abuse
facility in February 2014. Shortly after opening, they
noticed an unmet need for those struggling with
mental health disorders. In September 2016, they
expanded their services and became a dual-licensed
facility. Having both substance-use disorder and
mental health licenses, they are able to accept those
struggling with strictly mental health issues.

Banking
Zions Bank
Established in 1873, Zions is Utah’s oldest bank. Today
it operates 123 full-service branches and nearly 200
ATMs throughout Utah, Idaho, and Wyoming. The
bank holds a 20% market share of deposits in the state
due to exceptional leadership, innovative products
and services, and the hard work of thousands of
employees in Utah.

Division Chair
Business Services
Matthew Hamby

23© 2025 BEST OF STATE

production, consistently delivering superior results
for Fortune 500 companies, large-scale conventions,
and high-profile clients.

Credit Unions
Mountain America Credit Union
Founded in 1936, Mountain America Credit Union is
a full-service financial institution headquartered in
Sandy, Utah, with more than 100 locations across six
states. Currently, Mountain America serves over one
million members and has over $16 billion in assets.

Customer Servicing/Call Centers
Olive & Cocoa
Olive & Cocoa is a catalog and web-based direct
marketing company located in Salt Lake City. Their
team has created, merchandised, and marketed
over 6,000 hardline, softline, edible, floral, apparel,
and keepsake gifts since 2009. Now entering their
sixteenth year of business, Olive & Cocoa has built a
loyal following based on the premise that a gift should
be a joy to give as well as receive. Every gift available
in their catalog and website focuses on sharing a
sentiment and is uniquely presented for an authentic,
heartwarming experience.

Electrical Services
Hunt Electric, Inc.
Hunt Electric has been a trusted leader in the
electrical contracting industry since 1986, delivering
comprehensive solutions that power communities
and businesses across the Intermountain West.
Headquartered in Salt Lake City, with branches
in St. George, Boise, and Denver, they have built
a reputation for quality, integrity, performance,
and versatility. With nearly 40 years of experience,
Hunt Electric provides high-quality electrical
solutions from large-scale data centers to cutting-
edge renewable energy installations. Their ability
to integrate services across their eight in-house,
specialized divisions and four branches allows them
to deliver innovative, tailored solutions that meet the
evolving needs of their clients.

Employment Agency
Your Employment Solutions
Your Employment Solutions (YES) is a staffing agency
that was founded in 1995. They alleviate the time their
customers spend finding, screening, onboarding,
paying, and insuring new employees, thus allowing
them to focus more on the growth of their business.
YES hired 6,400 employees for more than 178 Utah
companies in 2020.

Environmental Impact
Tuck Landscape
Tuck Landscape is a full-service landscape company
with unsurpassed strengths in design, landscape
construction, project execution, and the highest
quality customer service. Tuck has been serving
clients in the Salt Lake City region for over 44 years
and is one of the largest landscape companies

BUSINESS SERVICES MEDAL WINNERS
in Utah. While Tuck is known for large high-end
residential design build projects, they are equally
as successful and proud at providing the finest
commercial landscapes.

Equipment Finance
Avtech Capital
Avtech Capital provides financing solutions to diverse
customers throughout the United States. They finance
a wide variety of equipment and capital projects
in nearly every industry, including healthcare,
manufacturing, aircraft, technology, software, energy,
construction, mining, and transportation, as well as
specialized and non-traditional equipment.

Financial Services
B.O.S.S. Retirement Solutions
and Advisors
B.O.S.S. Retirement Solutions has rapidly grown
into the premier retirement planning firm along the
Wasatch Front. Established in 2008, B.O.S.S. now has
seven offices across the Wasatch Front. Founders
Tyson Thacker and Ryan Thacker have decades of
experience helping thousands of families plan for and
prepare for the financial challenges of retirement.

Food Services & Distributors
Nicholas and Company
From humble beginnings in 1939 to its current
third-generation leadership, Nicholas and
Company provides access to more than 12,000
products. The company has assembled resources
designed to create mutual success with its partners:
a team of food service experts, state-of-the-art
facilities, cutting-edge technology, and exemplary
food safety practices.

Freight/Logistics
England Logistics
England Logistics is considered a third-party logistics
and freight brokerage firm, which means it helps
companies get their goods and products to market
when they don’t have the equipment (trucks, trains,
ships, etc.) to do it themselves. England Logistics has
earned a number of prestigious awards, including
being ranked among the nation’s top 20 freight
brokerage firms by Transport Topics in 2020.

General Contractor
Jacobsen Construction Company
Jacobsen Construction was founded in 1922 in Salt
Lake City by Danish immigrant Soren Jacobsen,
who had arrived on Ellis Island as a teenager with
not much more than a few dollars in his pocket and
one big American dream. Today, Jacobsen is one of
America’s most prolific general contractors.

Graphic Design
Weapon Agency
A full-service branding and creative agency, Weapon
Agency is full of an elite squad of alpha geeks, creative
storytellers, and strategic visionaries. Together they

mix art and science to turn brands into favorites.
Weapon Agency has headed up projects for clients
including Skullcandy, JEEP, Sony Music, Mountain
Dew, Adobe, and many others.

Health Care Facilities
Woodland Park Dental
Woodland Park Dental has built a reputation as
a leading provider of comprehensive dental care,
offering exceptional service to its patients for over
25 years. Led by a team of skilled professionals, the
practice specializes in a wide range of dental services,
from preventive care to advanced restorative and
cosmetic treatments. With a focus on patient
comfort and individualized care, Woodland Park
Dental is known for state-of-the-art technology,
compassionate staff, and commitment to creating a
positive experience for everyone who walks through
their doors.

Industrial Equipment
Great Dane of Utah Parts and Service
Great Dane of Utah has been involved with semi
trailer sales, service, parts, and leasing for the past 31
years. Under the guidance of President and Owner
Bill Nehmer, they prioritize selling quality, clean,
and work-ready equipment and honor the customer
experience when they pick up their items. Customers
leave with nice equipment, a new jacket, a drink in
hand, and a smile on their face!

In-house Health Clinic
Odyssey House Martindale Clinic
Nationally recognized and highly unique, Martindale
Clinic staff offers a full range of routine, preventative,
and urgent care services, emphasizing the treatment
of underlying behavioral health and substance abuse
conditions. MC additionally serves Odyssey staff
and anyone in the community, including patients’
children and significant others, encouraging whole-
family health. MC’s approach employs a Medical
Home model, providing individuals with ongoing
access to providers and high-quality medical care
in a supportive environment conducive to long-
term recovery. MC operates evidence-based, best-
practice models designed to help people successfully
overcome each barrier they may face.

Insurance
Moreton & Company
Moreton & Company was founded in 1910 to meet
the surety needs of the rapidly growing Salt Lake
Valley. Since then, they have grown from two to over
240 employees and expanded their focus to include
employee benefits and property & casualty insurance.
As the largest privately held insurance broker in the
Intermountain West, Moreton & Company serves a
diverse range of clients, many of whom are local Utah
companies or public entities. They work hard each
day to maintain ethical practices, innovation that
serves their client, and a healthy work-life balance for
their employees.

24 © 2025 BEST OF STATE

BUSINESS SERVICES MEDAL WINNERS
care. Along with retail prescription filling, they have
an extensive compounding lab to provide customized
medications and an adherence lab to package
medications in a way that helps patients take the right
medications at the right time.

Physical Therapy
RPT
Founded in 1971, Registered Physical Therapists, Inc.
(RPT) is a private practice, outpatient physical therapy
services provider. Through hard work and dedication,
RPT has grown over 52 years from our 2 founders to
nearly 130 employees, with 9 locations in Utah and 3
more currently in the planning stages.

Property Maintenance
Tuck Maintenance
Tuck Maintenance is a full-service landscape
maintenance company with unsurpassed strengths
in residential estate maintenance, commercial
maintenance, irrigation, landscape design,
property enhancements, and snow removal. Tuck
Maintenance is known for providing the finest
residential estate maintenance and comprehensive
commercial maintenance services in Utah.

Property Management
ICO Multifamily
Property Management
ICO Multifamily Development (ICO) has developed
and overseen the construction of the most multifamily
units in Utah State since 2011. They develop
communities that provide the quality of life people
want to live. Formed in 2009, ICO develops only
class A+ apartment home communities within the
state of Utah and has created a unique and thriving
culture as they develop, build, own, and manage each
apartment community.

Public Relations
Intrepid
Intrepid is one of the largest public relations agencies
in Utah. The firm has provided services for clients
such as Levi’s, Thanksgiving Point, UDOT, the Utah
Jazz, and the Children’s Miracle Network. In addition
to hundreds of other awards Intrepid has won, they
are a 7-time recipient of the Public Relations Society
of America’s Silver Anvil Award, the most esteemed
honor in the public relations industry.

Real Estate Development
Hamlet Homes
The focus at Hamlet Homes continues to be to
provide attractively designed homes that will
be a lasting value. Since the inception of the
company, Hamlet Homes has provided more
than 4,500 families a place to call home and
over 80 communities in Utah and has most
recently expanded to Southeast Idaho with 3 new
communities under development and construction.

has given individuals a quick and cost effective option
to receive MRI imaging.

Miscellaneous Services
Integrated Water Management
Integrated Water Management (IWM) is a leader
in Utah’s energy waste management industry,
specializing in environmentally responsible
containment, treatment, and disposal solutions. With
over a decade of experience, IWM has developed
state-of-the-art facilities to support the responsible
handling of production water, drilling byproducts,
and solid waste generated by the oil and gas industry.

Mortgage Banking
Zions Bank
Zions Bank is Utah’s oldest financial institution and
is the only local bank with a statewide distribution
of branches, operating 118 full-service branches
throughout Utah, Idaho, and in Jackson, Wyoming.
Zions Bank’s mortgage team provides localized
service because they’ve learned local decision
making simplifies and accelerates the application and
approval process, with a streamlined digital mortgage
application combined with personal support through
the home buying process.

Mortgage Broker
City Creek Mortgage
To better serve hardworking families, City Creek
Mortgage offers extended office hours and salaried
loan officers who provide warm and personalized
mortgages at a much lower cost. City Creek has been
serving Utah for 23 years and was rated among the
top 10 mortgage originators in the country according
to Mortgage Executive Magazine.

Office Equipment & Services
Elite Warehouse Supply
Elite Warehouse Supply works with each of their
clients on an individual basis, getting to know the
ins and outs of your business and all the operations
involved in making it work to its greatest potential.
They then develop a strategy-driven approach to the
storage and management of materials to optimize
every step and component of your business.

Payroll/Benefits
PayLogics
From humble beginnings with two brothers in a
small home basement office to a 12,000-sq-ft office
building with a team of 40 payroll, benefit, and
human resources professionals, PayLogics is now
responsible for paying more than $1,400,000,000 in
Utah wages. They also have clients in all 50 states and
are laser-focused on exceeding expectations.

Pharmacies
Hurricane Family Pharmacy
Hurricane Family Pharmacy opened in 2009 to serve
the residents of Southern Utah. They use cutting-edge
technology to provide unique solutions for patient

Investment Advisory Services
B.O.S.S. Retirement Solutions
and Advisors
B.O.S.S. Retirement Solutions has rapidly grown
into the premier retirement planning firm along the
Wasatch Front. Established in 2008, B.O.S.S. now has
seven offices across the Wasatch Front. Founders
Tyson Thacker and Ryan Thacker have decades of
experience helping thousands of families plan for and
prepare for the financial challenges of retirement.

Landscape Design & Structure
Western Timber Frame
Western Timber Frame has differentiated themselves
from others within the field by providing a unique
and superior construction method; the latest in
designs, trends, and styles; and a superior customer
buying and design experience. The Western Timber
Frame discovery and design experience is what
helps them design the perfect outdoor living space
for each customer.

Language Services
Transcend Translation
Transcend Translation is a Certified Service
Disabled Veteran Owned Small Business (SDVOSB)
and launched as a main competitor in the
language translation industry in 2021. Transcend
is a leading provider of language translation and
interpretation services for some of the world’s top
global organizations. They are a group of passionate
language experts who value quality and exceptional
communication to exceed their clients’ needs.

Legal Services
The Franchise & Business Law Group
The Franchise & Business Law Group focuses on
franchise law and business law. Its attorneys help
businesses to succeed and meet their goals in relation
to growing their business. The firm’s senior partner,
Jeff Thompson, was the first franchise law attorney
in Utah. The Franchise & Business Law Group
represents 30 franchise systems and treats clients like
friends and family.

Marketing
Proper Seven
Proper Seven fuses classical artistry with digital
innovation. CEO and Creative Director Michelle
Richardson has a proven track record for success, able
to revitalize sales channels, enhance brand visibility,
and craft bespoke digital experiences. With a dynamic
presence in 12+ locations worldwide, Proper Seven is
uniquely positioned to offer unparalleled service and
support to clients across the globe.

Medical Lab/Imaging
TaylorMed MRI
TaylorMed MRI is a self pay imaging facility that has
been open for three years and is the business of Kevin
Taylor, M.D., a Board Certified Radiologist specialized
in MSK (musculoskeletal system). TaylorMed MRI

25© 2025 BEST OF STATE

Real Estate Services
Keller Williams Realty - Utah Region
Keller Williams has a rich cultural heritage that sets it
apart from all other real estate companies. From its
beginnings, KW has emphasized the importance of
fostering a supportive and collaborative culture. This
focus on building strong relationships and working
together has been a hallmark of the Keller Williams
culture for over four decades.

Recording Studio
Funk Studios
Funk Studios is the culmination of over two decades
of building a recording business that can be trusted
to achieve a sound equal to any major facility in the
world. The studio is considered to be the top place
in Utah for various types of sessions from soloists, to
bands, to game and movie soundtracks.

Residential/Commercial Painting
Painter Bros
Painter Bros started 12 years ago in Utah County
and has grown nationwide as a residential and
commercial painting franchise. While they started
out as a local painting company, the goal was to
expand the brand to empower others to start their
own business. Today, Painter Bros headquarters
continues to be based in Lehi near Thanksgiving
Point, with over 41 franchises, covering 122 territories
across the United States. Painter Bros works with local
painting contractors to execute work here in Utah,
while training and working with franchisee owners on
growing their businesses in their respected markets.

Retirement Planning
Paragon Wealth Management
The business now known as Paragon Wealth
Management was established in 1986 in Provo,
Utah, by Dave Young. He wanted to give investors a

way to invest their money the same way he invested
his own. Dave hoped to provide investors a
dynamic and proactive investment program rather
than the typical product sales approach that most
investment firms offer.

Roofing
Far West Roofing
Doug Cooper and Olin Van Der Watt came from
South Africa to Utah in 1993 to build their futures.
They founded Far West Roofing the next year, which
now serves Salt Lake City and Northern Utah, has
more than 40 employees, and is known for honest,
caring service.

Security Services
Tycon Systems Inc.
Tycon Systems Inc., founded in 2008, designs and
manufactures remote power systems, outdoor
UPSPRO and RemotePro units for integrated
power conversion devices. Tycon has grown from
a residential garage in Draper to a 23,000-square-
foot facility in Bluffdale with a Sales Development
Office in St. George and a second Engineering Office
in Yakima, Washington. Tycon Systems currently
exports products to more than 46 countries.

Storage
Elite Warehouse Supply
Elite Warehouse Supply learns the ins and outs
of a business and then develops a strategy-driven
approach to the storage and management of
materials, resulting in increased efficiency and
productivity. Elite has a full in-house fabrication shop
to make parts for a custom solution and to ensure
complete satisfaction.

Substance Abuse Treatment
The Other Side Academy
The Other Side Academy is a 501(c)(3) Utah non-
profit licensed with the State of Utah as the very
first “Residential Vocational and Life-Skills Training
Program.” It was started in 2015 and offers free
vocational and life-skills training as well as non-
clinical drug treatment to those who have destroyed
their lives through addiction, homelessness, and
criminal behaviors.

Talent Agency
Utah Live Bands, LLC
Utah Live Bands has become one of the biggest
music and entertainment talent agencies in the
country. They represent hundreds of bands and
entertainers, approximately half of whom were
actually produced and created by Utah Live Bands.
They have contracted performers for several network
television shows and have produced events all over
Europe, North America, and South America.

Title/Escrow
Title One
Title One is Utah’s leading title company, providing
homeowners and real estate professionals with trusted
expertise and exceptional service for over 30 years. As
a locally owned, family-run company, they take pride
in delivering accurate, efficient, and seamless closings
while fostering long-term relationships built on trust.
Many employees have been with Title One for over 20
years, creating a company culture that feels like family
and ensuring that every transaction is handled with
care and professionalism.

BUSINESS SERVICES MEDAL WINNERS

26 © 2025 BEST OF STATE

PRIVATE SECTOR

Business Development
Painter Bros Franchising
Painter Bros Franchising took painting beyond the
homes and into Corporate America. Painter Bros
has been growing and scaling for 10 years now,
and in less than 2 years has expanded with over 46
territories with franchise owners. While Painter Bros
services customers in all 50 states, they also expanded
internationally in 2024! Painter Bros gives individuals
the opportunity to be their own boss, run their own
business, and break glass ceilings with not only their
local market efforts, but the efforts of the national
team in Utah.

Charitable/Service Organization
Kids on the Move
Kids On The Move (KOTM) is a distinguished
nonprofit organization dedicated to strengthening
Utah communities by providing essential early
intervention, education, and support services to
children with disabilities and their families. For
40 years, KOTM has been a beacon of hope for
families navigating developmental challenges,
growing from a small parent-led initiative into a
transformative organization that now serves over
3,100 children annually.

Civil Engineering
AWA Engineering
Anderson Wahlen & Associates (AWA) has a rich
legacy in civil engineering, tracing its roots back
to 1958 with the establishment of Great Basin
Engineering in Ogden. Expanding from a small
three-person firm to a thriving team of over 50,
AWA has played a pivotal role in shaping residential,
commercial, industrial, hospitality, entertainment,
and mixed-use developments that elevate the quality
of life across the state. Guided by its mission and
vision, AWA transforms land into legacies that serve
communities and create value for clients, employees,
and future generations.

Commercial Development
ICO Development
ICO Multifamily Development (ICO) has developed
and overseen the construction of the most
multifamily units in Utah State since 2011. They
develop communities that provide the quality of life
people want to live. Formed in 2009, ICO develops
only class A+ apartment home communities within
the state of Utah and has created a unique and
thriving culture as they develop, build, own, and
manage each apartment community.

Community Association Management
HOALiving
Founded and headquartered in Utah, HOALiving is
a network of community association management
and service companies, including A+ Association
Accounting, CAM Community Association
Management, FCS Community Management, MAX
Maintenance, and Splash Pool Service. They are
Utah’s management consulting company and the
only portfolio Accredited Association Management
Company (AAMC) in the state, providing tailored
customer experiences to roughly 500 community
associations and 42,000 households.

Corporate Giving
Zions Bank
Zions Bank has a proud legacy of bringing value to
the communities it serves since it was founded in
1873. As Utah’s oldest bank, Zions Bank continues to
be a pioneer in banking. Today it operates 121 full-
service branches and nearly 200 ATMs throughout
Utah, Idaho, and in Jackson, Wyoming. There are
1,144 employees who work for Zions Bank in Utah,
and a total of 3,801 Utah employees who are part of
its parent company, Zions Bancorporation, N.A.

Disability Services
Kids on the Move
Kids On The Move (KOTM) is a distinguished nonprofit
organization dedicated to strengthening Utah
communities by providing essential early intervention,
education, and support services to children with
disabilities and their families. For 40 years, KOTM
has been a beacon of hope for families navigating
developmental challenges, growing from a small
parent-led initiative into a transformative organization
that now serves over 3,100 children annually.

Economic Development
Zions Bank
Zions Bank has a proud legacy of bringing value to
the communities it serves since it was founded in
1873. As Utah’s oldest bank, Zions Bank continues to
be a pioneer in banking. Today it operates 121 full-
service branches and nearly 200 ATMs throughout
Utah, Idaho, and in Jackson, Wyoming. There are
1,144 employees who work for Zions Bank in Utah,
and a total of 3,801 Utah employees who are part of
its parent company, Zions Bancorporation, N.A.

Education/Advocacy Organization
Odyssey House of Utah
The mission of Odyssey House is to help people
understand their true potential; comprehensive
education programming is critical in achieving that
goal. Since their beginning in 1971, as a single residential

facility, Odyssey House has grown to become the largest
addiction treatment program in Utah. Their dedicated
team of professionals, which includes medical doctors,
psychiatrists, therapists, and case managers, works
collaboratively to provide individualized care that
meets the unique needs of each person.

Employer
Odyssey House of Utah
The mission of Odyssey House is to help people
understand their true potential; comprehensive
education programming is critical in achieving that
goal. Since their beginning in 1971, as a single residential
facility, Odyssey House has grown to become the largest
addiction treatment program in Utah. Their dedicated
team of professionals, which includes medical doctors,
psychiatrists, therapists, and case managers, works
collaboratively to provide individualized care that
meets the unique needs of each person.

Employer/Employee Relations
Kids on the Move
Kids On The Move (KOTM) is a distinguished
nonprofit organization dedicated to strengthening
Utah communities by providing essential early
intervention, education, and support services to
children with disabilities and their families. For
40 years, KOTM has been a beacon of hope for
families navigating developmental challenges,
growing from a small parent-led initiative into a
transformative organization that now serves over
3,100 children annually.

Entrepreneur
True Pros LLC
True Pros is a locally owned and operated HVAC
company proudly serving the Wasatch Front, and
one of the area’s few women-owned and operated
HVAC businesses. In July 2023, True Pros was
founded without purchasing a previously established
database, company, or employees. Today, True Pros
has 17 employees and has completed over 1 million
in revenue in the first seven months of business. To
date, this is one of the very few genuine 5-star ONLY
companies, having no reviews with less than 5-stars
and almost 300 reviews.

Financial Assistance
Footsteps for Fertility Foundation
Footsteps for Fertility Foundation raises money
through annual 5k races for couples seeking in
vitro fertilization, a procedure that can cost $10,000
to $20,000 and is not covered by insurance. So far
the Footsteps for Fertility Foundation and their
supporters have provided a total of 173 fertility
grants, resulting in 78 babies born, 13 more on the
way, and 40 couples still being treated.

COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT MEDAL WINNERS
Division Chair
Community Development
Matthew Hamby

27© 2025 BEST OF STATE

Government Relations
Foxley & Pignanelli
In 1997, partners Douglas Foxley and Frank Pignanelli
founded the innovative, bipartisan government relations
firm of Foxley & Pignanelli. Amidst their differences
in political ideology, the duo built a firm providing
comprehensive government relations services, strong
partnerships between clients and public officials, with a
dedication to a legacy of service for Utah.

Historical Preservation
Marie Dalgleish
In her teens, Marie Dalgleish learned of the plan
to create Wasatch Mountain State Park and that
the lands her family pioneered, and two original
structures, would be included. She responded with a
determination that this heritage site would never be
forgotten. In 2000, at the public dedication of Huber
Grove Historical Site, she was presented the State of
Utah Recognition Plaque “for time, energy, and vision
in making the Huber Farmhouse and Creamery a place
where future generations can experience a part of the
Huber Legacy.”

Humanitarian Organization
USANA Foundation
Founded in March 2012, the USANA Foundation
changes and empowers lives around the world. Their
mission is to develop a network of communities built
on long-lasting, sustainable, and nutritious food.
Their flagship programs, including USANA Kids Eat
and the USANA Garden Towers, have a profound and
lasting impact, enriching thousands of lives locally
and globally every year. They’ve provided over 112
million meals across 45 countries.

Individual Humanitarian
Joseph Grenny
Joseph Grenny has achieved great things in multiple
areas of his life. He co-founded, managed, and grew
Crucial Learning (formerly called VitalSmarts), a
successful Utah-based business consulting and
training company into a global organization, with more
than half of the Forbes Global 2000 implementing the
principles and skills he teaches into their organizations.
During his work at Crucial Learning, he co-wrote four
New York Times bestsellers and became a renowned
keynote speaker. Joseph took time to better the world
and Utah with his humanitarian work and co-founded
multiple effective non-profits, including Unitus, The
Other Side Academy, and most recently, The Other
Side Village.

Individual Volunteer
David F. Pack, Ph.D.
David Pack is a dedicated advocate of educational
volunteerism in word and deed. He desires to
promote and elevate the concept of giving back by
encouraging people of all walks of life to donate
their time, talents, and other resources to better the
lives of others. Believing the best way of achieving

COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT MEDAL WINNERS
that goal is to set the example, David has offered his
time and talents to many worthwhile educational
organizations throughout his life.

International Business
Armormax
Armormax, founded in Utah in 1994, is internationally
recognized as the premier armored passenger vehicle
designer and manufacturer. Armormax continues to
grow with a variety of different projects, in addition to
the “traditional” armored passenger vehicles.

Large Business
Blue Best LLC
Blue Best LLC Heating Air Plumbing & Generators is
a home services company located in Bountiful. They
began providing HVAC services to the Wasatch Front in
early 2021 when it became aware of consumer demand
for something different—a trustworthy company
that you’d be willing to recommend. The customer’s
experience is their top priority. Just the last four years,
Blue Best has received over 2,150 5-star reviews.

Project Development
Hogan & Associates Construction, Inc.
Hogan & Associates Construction began in 1945 as
Hogan & Tingey Construction. Led by Eric Hogan,
they started building homes for World War II
veterans. Since 1945, Hogan has grown to be one of
Utah’s largest contractors, often ranked as the fifth-
largest general contractor in the state.

Relocation Services
Best of Utah Moving & Storage
Best of Utah Moving & Storage specializes in local,
affordable, and professional moves. Since 2013,
this Salt Lake City-based company has prioritized
honesty, hard work, communication, and excellent
customer service with a smile.

Small Business (under $5M/year)
ENEVIVE
In order to provide the community with access to
safe water, ENEVIVE has a water research center in
Pleasant Grove. The center not only serves as a means
of educating the public about various water-related
issues in the state, but also features a self-serve pure
water refill station where individuals can fill their
containers with safe, purified water free of charge,
with unlimited refills. This free service eliminates the
need for families to purchase bottled water or pay by
the gallon, resulting in significant savings for many.

Youth Organization
One Voice Children’s Choir
One Voice Children’s Choir is part of One Voice
Children 501c3, a nonprofit organization based in
Utah with a mission to inspire the world through the
power of children’s voices. The organization offers
ambassador programs, initiatives, and classes centered
around helping youth and children discover, cultivate,

and use their voices in positive and productive ways.
One Voice Children’s Choir (OVCC) is the flagship
ambassador program of the organization.

PUBLIC SECTOR

Animal Services
Salt Lake County Animal Services
Salt Lake County Animal Services is the largest no-
kill municipal shelter in Utah. They offer 24/7 service
and response, in-house veterinary care, special
programming for owned and shelter pets, and free
microchips and vaccines for all residents in their
jurisdiction. Animal Services is nationally recognized
for leading the way in animal welfare standards.

Appointed Official
David F. Pack, Ph.D.
David has never said no when asked to serve. A short
list of some appointments he has accepted issued
by his city are five terms as chairman of the Board
of Adjustment, two terms as chairman of Planning
Commission, one term as chairman of Design Review
Committee, two terms as chairman of Entertainment
subcommittee, and one term as chairman of
economic development subcommittee.

Community Communications
Davis Education Foundation
Davis Education Foundation is the fundraising arm of
Davis School District. Its mission is to remove barriers
to learning, provide educational opportunities to
every student, and create partnerships that connect
the community. To communicate the reality of
students experiencing homelessness, they created a
video depicting a teenage girl struggling to keep up
with school while working and sleeping out of her car,
making it possible for viewers to connect to the needs
of homeless students.

Entertainment Venue
Sandy Amphitheater
Built in 1999, the Sandy Amphitheater provides a
diverse range of concert and arts programming to
the region. Programming includes large national
tours and international icons, local artists, and free
community events. Over 70,000 attend each year—
audiences come from around Utah and the entire
Mountain West region.

Event/Performance Venue
Sandy Amphitheater
Built in 1999, the Sandy Amphitheater provides a
diverse range of concert and arts programming to
the region. Programming includes large national
tours and international icons, local artists, and free
community events. Over 70,000 attend each year—
audiences come from around Utah and the entire
Mountain West region.

28 © 2025 BEST OF STATE

Library
Springville Public Library
Springville Public Library’s mission is to
transform lives through a world of knowledge,
discovery, and imagination. The library serves
a population of 34,000 citizens in a close-knit
town, who checked out nearly half a million
books, movies, and magazines last year. Due to
this accomplishment and its other successful
programs, the Springville library has been
selected to present at the upcoming American
Library Association’s annual conference.

Mayor
Mayor Dave Young
David Young was sworn in as the Mayor of Orem
on January 3rd, 2022. In two years, his service as
Mayor has proven to bring many efficiencies and
improvements to Orem. Dave founded Paragon
Wealth Management 35 years ago, and it is a premier
wealth management company, winning Best of State
13 times for the Investment Advisor category.

Mental Health Services
Orem Police Department
The Orem Police Department has a Mental Health
Response Team (MHRT) to help assist with the
increasing daily interactions and demand that
police officers have with those displaying mental
illness in the community. MHRT is the only unit

of its kind associated with a police department in
Utah. This Unit includes trained officers−sworn
and civil−who respond to crisis mental health calls.
They follow up with individuals and family members
who have had an interaction with the Orem Police
Department within the prior 7 days surrounding their
mental health. During these calls, MHRT assesses the
situation to help ensure the safety of those in crisis.

Parks & Recreation Department
Orem Parks and Recreation
The Orem Recreation Department and Orem Public
Works Department oversee the parks, sports programs,
and recreational complexes in the city to improve health
and wellness. Four recent park and amenity projects are
All Together Playground, the first all-abilities playground
in Utah County; Hillcrest Park, opening in the spring of
2024; Lakeside Sports Complex, completely renovated
and opened in summer of 2023; and Orem Family
Fitness Center, which opened in March of 2021.

Public/Private Partnership
Davis Education Foundation
Davis Education Foundation is the public nonprofit
fundraising arm for Davis School District. Its mission
is “to remove barriers to learning, provide educational
opportunities to every student, and create partnerships
that connect the community through giving.” Since
its formation in 1987, the Foundation’s relationships
with private entities and individuals have become the
lifeblood of its program offerings.

Publication
HEALTH Magazine
SW Utah Public Health Foundation
HEALTH Magazine is published 3 times annually
with printing runs of 74,000, mailed free of
charge to most residents of Washington, Iron,
Kane, Beaver, and Garfield counties. Topics
cover travel health, quitting tobacco, e-cigarettes,
yoga, 72-hour kits, vaccinations, hand washing,
breastfeeding, car seats, prescription drug safety,
food safety, family mealtime, senior health and
fitness, gardening, and more.

Youth Organization
Millcreek Youth Council
The 2024-2025 Millcreek Youth Council underwent
a transformative shift this year, moving under
the umbrella of the Millcreek Promise Program,
placing the council under the guidance of
experienced advisors who specialize in youth
engagement and leadership development. With a
focus on empowerment, the council now operates
with a fully youth-led approach—allowing its 21
members, representing five area schools, to take
full ownership of service projects, events, and
planning efforts. This structure fosters meaningful
leadership opportunities and ensures that the
youth are actively shaping their own impact within
the community.

COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT MEDAL WINNERS

hamlethomes.com

Celebrating 30 Years in Business

The Official Builder of
HGTV’s #1 Hit Show Rock the Block - Season 6

Find out how you can buy one of the Rock the Block
Homes or build your dream home at

29© 2025 BEST OF STATE

30 © 2025 BEST OF STATE

FINE DINING

American Artisan
wood.ash.rye
wood.ash.rye is a chef-driven, 4-star restaurant located
in downtown St. George inside The Advenire Hotel.
Since their opening in 2020, wood.ash.rye has been a
culinary pioneer in Southern Utah focused on elevated
cuisine and exceptional service. Sourcing ingredients
from as many regional purveyors as possible, the menu
has an elevated, rustic culinary balance that highlights
the abundance of the Beehive state.

American Classic
La Jolla Groves
La Jolla Groves has been doing business in Provo since
2010. In 2018 it changed ownership and some major
changes were made to improve and progress the
restaurant. Kyler Roney and his team have transformed
La Jolla groves into the best restaurant in town. Their
greatest focus is always on quality food and service.

American Contemporary
Blind Rabbit Kitchen
The concept for Blind Rabbit Kitchen was born in the
heart of Sugar House. Founders of Sol-Agave opened
this family oriented, fun and casual steakhouse, bringing
a different dining option for all ages. Guests can walk in
for either a great cocktail, delicious sandwiches, or a
well-cooked steak.

Argentinian Steakhouse
Libertango Steakhouse
Libertango Steakhouse emerges from a rich tapestry of
cultural fusion, rooted in the Serodio family’s culinary
legacy and the vision born in Campos do Jordao, Brazil.
Following a triumphant launch in Brazil, the Serodio
family sought new horizons in Utah, where they found
synergy with the local community through a partnership
with the Thatcher family, natives of the state.

Artisan Farm to Table
Pago
Scott Evans is the owner and operator of Pago Restaurant
Group, which currently includes 5 restaurants and bars:
Pago, Finca, Casot, Emigration Cafe, and Finca Pintxos
Bar. Pago is recognized as Salt Lake City’s first farm to
table restaurant since 2009, creating a new standard for
sourcing and a seasonal menu format.

Authentic Italian
Antica Sicilia
The Mirenda family moved from Sicily to Utah in
2013 and opened the first Sicilia Mia in 2015, bringing
their Italian heritage, Old World traditions, and
family recipes that have been passed down through
the generations. Antica Sicilia, part of the Sicilia Mia
Restaurant Group, is known for their carbonara pasta
with slow roasted pancetta, finished tableside in the
Flaming Wheel of Cheese.

Authentic Mexican
Blue Iguana
Blue Iguana offers authentic, traditional Mexican
cuisine and has won many local and state awards.
Best known for its diverse selection of rich moles, Blue
Iguana also offers a wide variety of Mexican culinary
treasures from sizzling shrimp fajitas to delectable chile
verde enchiladas, with syncopated rhythms of mariachi
and the rainbow of pastel colors in the background.

Breakfast
TRUreligion Pancake and Steakhouse
TRU purchased all the furnishings from Utah’s longest
surviving restaurant, Lambs Grill, that was located a
block south of LDS Temple Square on Main Street in
Salt Lake City. The furnishings were restored with a lot
of love. The furniture predates World War One and adds
a lot of charm and character to the establishment and
preserves a nice bit of Utah history to boot. The food is,
frankly, amazing!

Breakfast Steaks & Meats
TRUreligion Pancake and Steakhouse
TRU purchased all the furnishings from Utah’s longest
surviving restaurant, Lambs Grill, that was located a
block south of LDS Temple Square on Main Street in
Salt Lake City. The furnishings were restored with a lot
of love. The furniture predates World War One and adds
a lot of charm and character to the establishment and
preserves a nice bit of Utah history to boot. The food is,
frankly, amazing!

Buffet Brunch
Laurel Brasserie & Bar
Under the direction of Executive Chef Tomas Olvera
and Executive Pastry Chef, Xavier Baudinet, Laurel’s
Sunday Brunch offers a wide array of offers to delight,
from the dedicated children’s buffets, with perfect
offerings at the perfect height for the little ones, to a
wide array of offerings for adults with everything from
savory to sweets.

DINING MEDAL WINNERS
Chef
Chef Wayne Christian
Chef Wayne Christian joined Westgate Resorts eleven
years ago and has not stopped growing since. Along
with developing menus and preparing masterpiece
dishes, he managed to set a new standard of being
a true leader for his team. His pride in cooking has
inspired the entire kitchen team to do their best to
deliver a cutting-edge culinary experience for their
guests. Chef Christian’s passion for food and his
coaching skills have helped Edge Steakhouse evolve
into the best restaurant in Park City.

Chinese
J Wong’s Thai & Chinese Bistro
As a local family-owned business, J Wong’s Bistro
combines authentic Chinese and Thai cuisine with a
modern twist. The menu explodes with flavor while the
presentation is colorful and clean, and the chefs often
travel to China and Thailand, where they find the best
flavors and the best ways of cooking, keeping their
menu offerings fresh and authentic.

Cocktails
Mint Tapas and Sushi
Over the past three years, Mint Tapas and Sushi has made
significant strides in elevating their cocktail offerings.
They have worked with some of the best mixologists and
bartenders in town, whose expertise and creativity have
been pivotal in transforming their cocktail menu. Mint
Tapas and Sushi’s seasonal cocktails are thoughtfully
crafted with precision and care, incorporating the freshest
ingredients and innovative techniques. Each drink is
designed to complement their menu, providing guests
with an unforgettable experience that blends culinary
artistry with exceptional cocktail craftsmanship.

Contemporary Sushi
Mint Tapas and Sushi
Mint Tapas and Sushi is known for its exquisite flavors
and beautiful presentation. Owner/chef Soy has more
than 15 years of experience in sushi and always strives
to create new dishes that customers love. The menu is
updated every 6 months, which shows Mint’s effort
to constantly improve and think outside of the box.
Mint started in 2018 in Sandy and now has a second
location in Holladay.

Division Chair
Dining Establishments
Sheral Schowe

31© 2025 BEST OF STATE

Mexican
Sol Agave
Even before being named the “Best Mexican
Restaurant in San Juan Capistrano”, Sol Agave began
inside a 17- foot food truck with the burning desire
to change the way guests perceived food truck
cuisine. They have always believed that Mexican food
should be MORE! More complex, modern, enjoyable
and healthier for our bodies. After expanding to
5 California locations, they now enjoy enormous
success in American Fork and Salt Lake.

Modern Bistro
Laurel Brasserie & Bar
Laurel Brasserie & Bar is a masterclass in taking
old-world traditions and updating them for modern
times. With both traditional brasserie menu items,
including Steak Frites and Mussels, to more inventive
offerings such as the Pumpkin Arancini and Vegan
Navy Bean Cassoulet, there is something to excite any
restaurant enthusiast.

Modern European
Blue Boar Inn and Restaurant
The Blue Boar serves some of the finest food in Utah to
a discerning clientele. It provides a European escape
with the quality, hospitality, cuisine, and ambiance that
guests would otherwise travel thousands of miles to
enjoy. From wild boar Swedish meatballs to Holsteiner
schnitzel with spaetzle, each dish is prepared and
served with meticulous attention to detail.

Modern Japanese
Aker Restaurant & Lounge
Founded in 2024 by seasoned restaurateurs Brandon
and Jason Hargett, Aker Restaurant & Lounge is inspired
by authentic Japanese culinary traditions, incorporating
modern innovations to create an exceptional dining
experience. The restaurant’s commitment to high-
quality ingredients and precise techniques merges
Japanese culture, technique, and presentation with a
world-class dining experience that celebrates the depth
and artistry of Japanese cuisine.

Modern Mexican
Monarca
Monarca combines traditional pre-Hispanic techniques
with modern culinary practices, showcasing unique
dishes like Salmon al Chorizo, Halibut in Flor de
Calabaza, Rib Eye Asada with roasted guajillo bone
marrow, and their Famous Birria Tacos. They collaborate
with local farmers and local vendors for the freshest
ingredients. Their customer experience motto is “We
keep our promise. We treat our guests as our mothers.”

Modern Sushi
Aker Restaurant & Lounge
In 2024, the Brandon and Jason Hargett launched Aker
Restaurant & Lounge, a Japanese-Latin fusion fine-
dining restaurant in downtown Salt Lake City. Inspired
by their travels and passion for culinary innovation,
Aker blends the precision of Japanese techniques with
the bold, vibrant flavors of Latin America. As Utah’s first
restaurant to offer dry-aged sushi, Aker has set a new
standard for fine dining in the region. Since its opening,
Aker has received overwhelming praise, nearly perfect
reviews, and has quickly established itself as a must-visit
destination for food enthusiasts.

New American
Hearth and Hill
Hearth and Hill stands as a cornerstone of community
and culinary excellence, offering a welcoming haven
for locals and visitors alike. With over five years of
dedication to serving its community, Hearth and Hill
has garnered recognition and awards for its inspired
cuisine, embodying a fresh and approachable take on
new American dining.

Pastries
La Bonne Vie
La Bonne Vie is The Grand America Hotel’s French-style
patisserie. Opened in 2010, La Bonne Vie is modeled
after the great European confection houses and features
a fresh and seasonal assortment of exquisite sweets.
Every confection is house-made and approached as a
work of art by Executive Pastry Chef Xavier Baudinet
and his team of master pâtissiers.

Pizza – Gourmet
Brabo Pizza
Brabo Pizza has established itself as a leader in the
culinary field, offering an unparalleled pizza experience
that combines artistry and premium ingredients. From
its inception, Brabo Pizza has remained committed
to crafting superior products, using time-honored
techniques and the freshest, high-quality ingredients
sourced from trusted providers. Each pizza is a
testament to innovation and tradition, with flavors that
delight and captivate the palate.

Plated Brunch
Blue Boar Inn and Restaurant
Brunch at the Blue Boar Inn is unlike any other in Utah.
The Blue Boar believes that brunch should be intimate,
that guests should be pampered, and that the inn
should serve only the finest and freshest fare. Drawing
on Midway’s Swiss, German, and Austrian roots, the inn
offers a 5-course Sunday brunch feast with an array of
menu options from traditional American favorites to
European delicacies.

Desserts
Sol Agave
Even before being named the “Best Mexican Restaurant
in San Juan Capistrano,” Sol Agave began inside a 17-
foot food truck with the burning desire to change the
way guests perceived food truck cuisine. They have
always believed that Mexican food should be MORE!
More complex, modern, enjoyable, and healthier for
our bodies. After expanding to 5 California locations,
they now enjoy enormous success in American Fork
and Salt Lake.

Eclectic Fusion
Francks Restaurant
Francks is where world class service and a friendly
atmosphere are met with calculated flavor combinations
and the freshest ingredients. Every night brings a dining
experience that will make your taste buds dance, even the
most educated of palates. The menu is presented with an
approachable selection of flavors that bring depth and
complexity to your dining experience.

European
Laurel Brasserie & Bar
Laurel Brasserie & Bar is a masterclass in taking Old
World traditions and updating them for modern
times. With both traditional brasserie menu items,
including Steak Frites and Mussels, to more inventive
offerings such as the Pumpkin Arancini and Vegan
Navy Bean Cassoulet, there is something to excite any
restaurant enthusiast.

Gourmet Southwestern
Urban Hill
Since opening in December 2022, Urban Hill has
redefined fine dining in Salt Lake City with its
contemporary American cuisine, seasonally inspired
dishes, and exceptional service. Every detail, from
thoughtfully sourced ingredients to expertly crafted
cocktails and an extensive wine selection, reflects its
commitment to quality and innovation. Beyond its
culinary excellence, Urban Hill fosters community
connections by collaborating with local purveyors,
hosting special events, and supporting local initiatives. A
favorite among both residents and visitors, it continues
to push the boundaries of fine dining in Utah.

Japanese
Miyazaki
Miyazaki at Fashion Place is truly the first
groundbreaking Japanese restaurant in the valley.
Serving certified Wagyu A5 from Japan, they follow the
traditional Japanese food culture while embracing local
taste. The menu design concept of Miyazaki is to bring
top Japanese food from Sushi to Steaks to Burgers in
order to have something for everyone focusing on the
quality of each item.

DINING MEDAL WINNERS

32 © 2025 BEST OF STATE

DINING MEDAL WINNERS
Southern Italian
Sicilia Mia Restaurant
The Mirenda family moved to Utah in 2013 from
Sicily and they have always had a passion for cooking
traditional Italian food. The first Sicilia Mia opened in
Holladay in 2015 and it was a true family affair. Head
Chef and Owner, Giuseppe Mirenda and Angelo, brother
to Margarita, is an owner. Sicilia Mia is known for the
Flaming Wheel of Cheese, aka their Carbonara pasta.
They make a traditional carbonara with homemade
spaghetti noodles and slow roasted pancetta. They finish
off the dish in a large wheel of Grana Padano Cheese.

Steaks
Edge Steakhouse
Edge Steakhouse, located in the Westgate Resort in Park
City, takes the traditional American-style steakhouse to
a new level. Their world-class culinary team has crafted
a unique menu that blends traditional steakhouse
favorites with an exciting array of specialty appetizers,
creative entrees, and innovative side dishes. OpenTable
has recognized Edge for Best Steaks, Most Notable Wine
List, and Most Romantic Restaurant.

Sushi
Itto Sushi
For the freshest of ingredients, Itto flies in fresh fish
every two days by airplane, only accepting fish caught
within 24 hours to serve to their guests. Itto believes that
even the same fish tastes different depending on how
the chef prepares it. Itto maintains a strict preparation
process to ensure the fish is ready to serve.

Szechuan
Szechwan Chinese Kitchen
Szechwan Chinese Kitchen is a family-owned restaurant
that was established in Park City in 1989. Szechwan
prides itself on its quality, promptness, and a wide variety
of chicken, beef, pork, and fresh seafood. During their
competitions and summer trainings at Utah Olympic
Park, China’s freestyle ski team eats at Szechwan every day.

Tapas
Mint Tapas and Sushi
Mint Tapas and Sushi is known for its exquisite flavors
and beautiful presentation. Owner/chef Soy has more
than 15 years of experience in sushi and always strives
to create new dishes that customers love. The menu is
updated every 6 months, which shows Mint’s effort to
constantly improve and think outside of the box. Mint
started in 2018 in Sandy and now has a second location
in Holladay.

Thai
J Wong’s Thai & Chinese Bistro
As a local family-owned business, J Wong’s Bistro
combines authentic Chinese and Thai cuisine with a

Wine Service
Edge Steakhouse
Under the direction of Restaurant Manager Ryan
Duchesne, Edge’s wine service has been elevated
to a new level to create a lasting memory within
the dining experience. Edge has several gueridons
with which they perform wine services such as port
tonging, classic aged wine decanting, and champagne
sabering. Edge’s 1,500 bottles from around the world
are priced so that every diner can find a beautiful
selection to accompany their meal.

CASUAL DINING

American
Magleby’s
Magleby’s is a Utah Valley restaurant that has served
the community for more than 40 years. Known for its
fine dining, Magleby’s lives by the motto: “local, fresh
homemade at its best.” Originally owned and created
by retired dentist David “Doc” Parkinson and his wife
of 50 years, Lenora Parkinson, Magleby’s became
synonymous with fresh dishes and warm greetings.
Today, Danielle and David Doty continue to honor the
restaurant’s legacy.

American Pub
Drafts Burger Bar
Drafts (or DBB) would make most people think of cold
beer, which it should because this burger bar has over 20
tap handles, as well as 25 bottled beers, several of which
are brewed locally in Utah. It’s also renown for a dining
experience that includes beautiful views of the Wasatch
mountains and creative, hand-crafted burgers, gourmet
pub food, including show-stopping milkshakes. The
atmosphere is both elegant and comfortable with 10
high-definition TVs playing national and worldwide
sporting events and a menu designed to satisfy every
taste bud.

American Traditional
The Coffee Shop
This iconic diner has maintained its authentic character
through decades of serving the community, creating
a space where fresh dinner rolls are baked daily and
regulars claim their familiar booths with comfortable
certainty. More than just a restaurant, The Coffee Shop
represents continuity and tradition in a changing urban
landscape—a place where raspberry pie signals the
arrival of summer and Friday’s baked halibut special
marks the week’s end with delicious reliability.

Authentic Thai
Chanon Thai Cafe
Chanon Thai Cafe is a neighborhood favorite Thai
restaurant located in Salt Lake City. They are known

modern twist. The menu explodes with flavor while the
presentation is colorful and clean, and the chefs often
travel to China and Thailand, where they find the best
flavors and the best ways of cooking, keeping their
menu offerings fresh and authentic.

Traditional Indian
India Palace
India Palace in South Jordan is run by a family from
northwestern India, who has been serving the same
recipes for three generations. They grind their own
spices and cook fresh on the spot, serving traditional
korma, curry, saag, and more. Guests are always treated
with hospitality and made to feel welcome with the
Singh family.

Traditional Italian
Fratelli Ristorante
Brothers Pete Cannella and Dave Cannell started
working in their uncle’s Italian restaurant in Salt Lake
City at age 10 until they left to open Fratelli in 2007.
Pete hand-makes several items including meatballs,
mozzarella cheese, gnocchi, and sausage. Fratelli’s
sauces and most of the salad dressings are made from
scratch, and several of their recipes have been handed
down for generations.

Traditional Thai
No.1 Thai Fusion Restaurant
No.1 Thai Fusion in Bountiful opened in January 2023
and has quickly established itself as one of the best
fine dining restaurant in the area. Besides Thai Food,
No.1 Thai Fusion also boasts a top-quality sushi bar.
Chef Manop’s attention to detail and passion for Thai
cuisine and sushi has already garnered widespread
acclaim and recognition.

Tuscan Italian
Tuscany Restaurant
Tuscany offers an enchanting fine dining experience,
with a menu inspired by the heart of Italy. Surrounded
by lush greenery reminiscent of an Italian Villa, Tuscany
is one of Utah’s best dining treasures.

Wine List
Edge Steakhouse
Edge features one of the largest wine selections in Park
City with more than 1,500 bottles from around the
world, priced so that every diner can find a beautiful
selection to accompany their meal. OpenTable has
awarded Edge Steakhouse numerous awards, including
Best Wine List, and Edge has earned the Wine Spectator
Award of Excellence for 6 years in a row.

33© 2025 BEST OF STATE

DINING MEDAL WINNERS
that feels both sophisticated and welcoming—a place
where casual comfort meets upscale ambiance, making
it ideal for everything from casual family dinners to
special celebrations.

Café
Emigration Café
Emigration Cafe is part of the award-winning Pago
Group founded by restaurateur Scott Evans. As a part of
Pago Group, guests can count on local sourcing, organic
products, and scratch made ingredients coming from
local family farms and local meat. They believe the
increased quality of ingredients not only allows food to
taste better but is also more impactful to local business.

Café Bruch
Gourmandise
Gourmandise opened over 30 years ago by a Greek
immigrant family who wanted to bring European
desserts to the city they made their own. Back in 2006
when Verne & Hally Hanssen purchased the beloved
downtown SLC establishment. The Hanssen family’s
bakery heritage, and belief that the modest bakery
and café could become something wonderful, laid
the foundation for what Gourmandise has become
today: a brand permanently ingrained in Utah’s history.

Chef
The Coffee Shop - Chef Santiago Ramos
Little America’s Executive Chef Santiago Ramos first
learned the importance of cooking with love by watching
his mom: the way she added unmeasured pinches
and dashes, rolled dough for chicken pot pies with
distinctive technique, and created meals from recipes
memorized by heart. These formative experiences
nurtured Chef Ramos’ natural talent and instilled in him
a deep appreciation for cooking from the heart.

Desserts
Gourmandise
Gourmandise opened over 30 years ago by a Greek
immigrant family who wanted to bring European
desserts to the city they made their own. Back in 2006
when Verne & Hally Hanssen purchased the beloved
downtown SLC establishment. The Hanssen family’s
bakery heritage, and belief that the modest bakery
and café could become something wonderful, laid the
foundation for what Gourmandise has become today: a
brand permanently ingrained in Utah’s history.

European
Gourmandise
Gourmandise opened over 30 years ago by a Greek
immigrant family who wanted to bring European
desserts to the city they made their own. Back in 2006
when Verne & Hally Hanssen purchased the beloved

downtown SLC establishment. The Hanssen family’s
bakery heritage, and belief that the modest bakery
and café could become something wonderful, laid the
foundation for what Gourmandise has become today: a
brand permanently ingrained in Utah’s history.

Franchise Mexican
Costa Vida Fresh Mexican Grill
Costa Vida has been a cornerstone of Utah’s fast-
casual dining scene since opening its first restaurant
in Layton, Utah, in 2003. Their innovation is driven by
guest feedback. In 2024, after hearing the need for an
improved digital experience, Costa Vida introduced
a new app, website, and loyalty system. This past year,
they expanded a completely redesigned store concept,
creating an even more enjoyable space for our guests
and teams to connect.

Gourmet Bistro
Gourmandise
Gourmandise opened over 30 years ago by a Greek
immigrant family who wanted to bring European
desserts to the city they made their own. Back in 2006
when Verne & Hally Hanssen purchased the beloved
downtown SLC establishment. The Hanssen family’s
bakery heritage, and belief that the modest bakery
and café could become something wonderful, laid the
foundation for what Gourmandise has become today: a
brand permanently ingrained in Utah’s history.

Gourmet Burgers
Drafts Burger Bar
Drafts (or DBB) would make most people think of cold
beer, which it should because this burger bar has over 20
tap handles, as well as 25 bottled beers, several of which
are brewed locally in Utah. It’s also renown for a dining
experience that includes beautiful views of the Wasatch
mountains and creative, hand-crafted burgers, gourmet
pub food, including show-stopping milkshakes. The
atmosphere is both elegant and comfortable with 10
high-definition TVs playing national and worldwide
sporting events and a menu designed to satisfy every
taste bud.

Hotel Breakfast
The Coffee Shop
This iconic diner has maintained its authentic character
through decades of serving the community, creating
a space where fresh dinner rolls are baked daily and
regulars claim their familiar booths with comfortable
certainty. More than just a restaurant, The Coffee Shop
represents continuity and tradition in a changing urban
landscape—a place where raspberry pie signals the
arrival of summer and Friday’s baked halibut special
marks the week’s end with delicious reliability.

for their flavorful spicy food and friendly service, where
every dish is cooked to order. Chanon Thai Cafe invites
you to come in and experience their delicious authentic
Thai food. Explore their dinner and lunch menus and
the specials they offer on a daily basis.

Bakery
Gourmandise
Gourmandise opened over 30 years ago by a Greek
immigrant family who wanted to bring European
desserts to the city they made their own. Back in 2006
when Verne & Hally Hanssen purchased the beloved
downtown SLC establishment. The Hanssen family’s
bakery heritage, and belief that the modest bakery
and café could become something wonderful, laid
the foundation for what Gourmandise has become
today: a brand permanently ingrained in Utah’s history.

Bakery Sandwiches
Happy Camper Deli and Bakery
Happy Camper Deli and Bakery, owned by Marc and
Andrea Singleton, is a vibrant culinary destination in
Utah, known for crafting the “Best Sandwich You’ll Have
All Day!” What began as a humble food truck serving
communities throughout Utah has become a staple
in the community, celebrated for its innovative menu
and commitment to quality. Marc and Andrea actively
engage with local suppliers to source fresh, high-quality
ingredients and foster a sense of community through
themed events and seasonal offerings.

Barbecue
Salt City Barbecue
Salt City Barbecue believes that quality beats quantity.
From the marbling in the brisket to the made-from-
scratch sides, sauces, and rubs, the quality of meat and
product just makes the best BBQ. They take the time to
source wood that enhances flavor and smoke for as long
as it takes to get the right tenderness in each meat.

Breakfast
Penny Ann’s Café
Penny Ann’s Cafe is synonymous with quality in service
and food. Open 7 days a week, Penny Ann’s serves up
fresh homemade dishes in a cozy and comfortable cafe
setting and is the home of the “Heavenly Hot Cakes,”
light and airy sour cream pancakes that attract people
from all over the Salt Lake Valley as well as out of town
guests who find great recommendations via social
media outlets.

Buffets
Lucky H Buffet
Located in the heart of downtown SLC, Lucky H Buffet’s
unique dining establishment seamlessly blends the
elegance of fine dining with the convenience and variety
of buffet-style service. Lucky H creates an atmosphere

34 © 2025 BEST OF STATE

Ice Cream
Leatherby’s Family Creamery
Leatherby’s Family Creamery has been serving premium
ice cream to Utah for over 40 years. By selecting only the
best, freshest ingredients for their ice cream, they ensure
an extraordinary product, which is made daily right in
the creamery. Customers are always encouraged to
observe the process through a large window connecting
the dining area and the batch freezer.

Indian
Swad Cabin
Swad Cabin is an Indian restaurant dedicated to
delivering excellence in every aspect, from its food
and ambiance to its service. Ensuring top-quality food
is the highest priority, with all necessary ingredients
carefully sourced to maintain authenticity and
excellence. The food is prepared fresh, using authentic
recipes, with no added food coloring. The restaurant
also features a dedicated Indo-Chinese menu, setting
it apart from others.

Italian
Bartolos
A small business that started with Park City in February
2019, Bartolos’ owners Alex and Rhia Bartolo, having
worked in many different properties through their
career, noticed a gap in the industry: an Italian restaurant
that serves breakfast, lunch and dinner 7 days a week.
They apply traditional Italian techniques in pasta and
bread-making using the best quality ingredients to
enhance the fine dining experience.

Korean
Myung Ga
Myung Ga has been running for 25 years in Utah and
was the first Korean restaurant that introduced one of
the popular dishes in Korea, Korean tofu soup, to Utah
people. It struggled at first because Korean food was
very unfamiliar food to Utah, but people started falling
in love with Korean BBQ and tofu soup. Now they have
customers who have been coming to Myung Ga ever
since they were little children.

Mexican
The Smoked Taco
Starting as a Taco Truck in SLC, in addition to and
smoking meats professionally for 15+ years, The Smoke
Taco decided to create something special by using
premium smoked meats for Tacos, think traditional
Mexican with Southern BBQ flavors. They didn’t want
to make something that had already been done and
continually strive to push the envelope by adding new
and innovative tacos every month.

New American
Vessel Kitchen
The Vessel Kitchen belief is simple: they believe
the body is a vessel meant to guide a person
through life’s joys, challenges, and routines.
Their food is nutritious, high-quality,
and energizing—designed to be a support every
step of the way. They offer nourishing, delicious
dishes inspired by flavors from around the world.

Pasta
Bona Vita Italian Bistro
Bona Vita Italian Bistro opened in Lehi December 2023.
Fresh, simple ingredients are used to create their award-
winning pasta dishes from their Butternut Squash
Ravioli to their delicious Scampi Alonso. They work
hard to maintain consistency and creativity in our menu
items and we use only the freshest ingredients.

Pizza – Custom Gourmet
Curry Pizza
Curry Pizza has been serving Utah since 2007. Their
Curry Pizza has been featured on “Diners, Drive-Ins
and Dives”. They focus on picking fresh ingredients
to make their special Naan dough and pizza sauces.
They also serve vegan and gluten free pizzas, taking
particular care special care in in preparing for their
gluten free customers.

Resort Breakfast
Silver Fork Lodge
Silver Fork Lodge has been known for its outstanding
breakfast for almost 3 decades. Every weekend,
Utahns make the drive up Big Cottonwood canyon
to enjoy breakfast dishes such as corned beef hash,
sourdough pancakes, cinnamon rolls, bananas
foster French toast, and chile verde omelet.

Salad Bowls
Aubergine Kitchen
More than just serving great food, the core purpose of
Aubergine Kitchen is to change lives from the inside
out. This mission is reflected in their evergreen menu,
featuring global flavors crafted with whole, unprocessed,
and unrefined ingredients, helping everyone eat better
and feel different. Their ability to craft dishes that cater
to various dietary needs while still being spectacularly
flavorful and satisfying sets them apart.

Salads
Bona Vita Italian Bistro
Bona Vita Italian Bistro has been in Lehi for over 10
years, using the best ingredients to create each dish with
care. Bona Vita has 7 salads on the menu, including
the flavorful insalata di pollo— tender grilled chicken
sauteed with sundried tomato, fresh tomato, goat
cheese, basil, and olive oil over mixed greens.

DINING MEDAL WINNERS
Soul Food
Sauce Boss Southern Kitchen
Sauce Boss Southern Kitchen opened May 2019. All of
their food and ingredients are made in-house. Every
sauce, seasoning blend, side dish, dessert and even their
drinks are made from scratch. While many restaurants
prefer using pre-made or heat and serve dishes, they do
their best to keep the soul of soul food alive by cooking
things the traditional way.

Soup
Ramen Haus
The mission statement of Ramen House is to embrace
diversity and culture in a lively setting while providing
excellence in service, atmosphere and always fresh
ingredients. They offer simple, fresh Japanese-style
Ramen; healthy, nutrient-dense bone broths, and many
hard-to-find Japanese dishes, including tsukemono,
takoyaki, honey toast, and, most particularly, fresh,
authentic ramen noodles.

Steakhouse
Ruby River Steakhouse
Ruby River Steakhouse is a Utah original with a laid-
back style and country romance. Born out of the desire
to create the most flavorful steaks west of the Mississippi,
Ruby River’s steaks are hand-cut daily for freshness and
21-day aged for tenderness. There are 3 Utah locations
in Provo, Salt Lake City, and Riverdale.

Thai
99 Thai Fusion Restaurant
This Layton restaurant serves authentic Thai food
cooked in authentic Thai ways and is decorated to make
diners feel like they are in Thailand. They chose the
name “99” because the number 9 is lucky in Thailand,
and “nine” in Thai sounds like the Thai words for
“progress” and “rice.” They offer a large selection of
appetizers, curries, noodles, salads, stir-fries, and more.

Traditional Italian
Basta Pasteria
Basta Pasteira was born for the love of pasta in a casual
environment from award winning chef Giuseppe
Mirenda. They serve fresh homemade pasta and pizza
all in front of the diner in a casual setting.

Traditional Thai
Aroon Thai Kitchen
Aroon Thai Kitchen offers authentic Thai cuisine with
a Homemade Style, with a focus on fresh ingredients
and traditional recipes. Aroon Thai Kitchen beautifully
embodies the heartwarming concept of a beloved
grandfather’s home, where the love for sharing
exceptional cuisine brings people together in a
welcoming and inviting atmosphere.

35© 2025 BEST OF STATE

Vegetarian/Vegan
Best Friends Angel Village Café
Best Friends Animal Sanctuary’s Angel Village Cafe
has been dishing up healthy, delicious plant-based
meals to thousands of staff, volunteers, and visitors for
more than 40 years. Their all-you-can-eat buffet always
includes a hot main dish, 2 hearty sides, a fresh salad
bar, tasty desserts, and hot coffee or tea, served in a kind,
communal space and topped off with a million-dollar
view of the surrounding red rock canyons.

Vietnamese
Vietopia Bistro
Vietopia is dedicated to providing their customers with
an unforgettable dining experience, showcasing the
vibrant and flavorful cuisine of Vietnam. Their extensive
menu features a range of authentic dishes, from their
famous phở noodle soup to their mouth-watering Bahn
Mi sandwiches and a multitude of delicious fried dishes.

INFORMAL DINING AND CARRYOUT

Authentic Mexican
Señor Pollo Mexican Grill
Señor Pollo Mexican Grill’s journey began with a passion
for preserving the traditional flavors of Sinaloa, Mexico.
Their chefs, driven by an unyielding commitment to
authenticity, meticulously craft every dish to transport
guest’s senses to the bustling streets and vibrant markets
of the region. At Senor Pollo, they don’t just serve food;
they serve a narrative of taste that pays homage to
generations of culinary artistry.

Bakery
Lehi Bakery
Lehi Bakery was originally founded in 1969. Over the
last 55 years, the bakery’s mission has been to serve
the community by baking sweet memories with its full
line of donuts, danishes, cakes, cookies, brownies, and
rolls. Lehi Bakery has become a Utah County icon for
its famous square donut, with nearly one million sold
in 2023.

Brazilian Food
Pitada Brazil - Brazilian Kitchen
Pitada Brazil is a restaurant serving authentic Brazilian
cuisine, opened in January 2023 in the city of Orem by
the Brazilian Isabel and her American husband Jeff
Stephens. The restaurant is modernly themed with the
colors and elements of Brazilian culture, offering a cozy
atmosphere with a menu of dishes, appetizers, desserts,
and typical Brazilian beverages.

Café
Caffe Torino
You can count on Caffe Torino for every meal of the
day. We offer delicious crepes, both sweet and savory.
We also provide healthy options with a wide variety
of options. We’re working every day to improve our
selections, and to make every experience unique.

Chicken Tenders
Mr. Charlie’s Chicken
Mr. Charlie’s Chicken Fingers specializes in Alabama-
style chicken that’s tender on the inside, crunchy on
the outside, and packed with flavor. Their chicken
fingers are made fresh—never frozen—and come from
responsibly raised chickens, ensuring quality guests
can taste. The ambiance is casual and welcoming, ideal
for families, friends, or a quick bite. Their menu ranges
from classic chicken tenders to creative dishes like
chicken po’ boy sandwiches and chicken and waffles, all
paired with tasty sides like creamy mac and cheese or
loaded fries. The experience isn’t complete without their
signature dipping sauces, which elevate the flavors to a
whole new level.

Cookies
Crumbl
Crumbl is a popular dessert franchise with a mission to
bring friends and family together over the best desserts
in the world. Crumbl was founded in 2017 in Logan,
Utah, by Jason McGowan and Sawyer Hemsley. It has
expanded across all 50 states, Canada, and Puerto Rico.
Through its weekly rotating menu, Crumbl has offered
over 250 different desserts ranging from cookies to cakes
to brownies, all served in Crumbl’s iconic Pink Box.

Designer Cakes
Mandy’s Custom Cakes
Mandy loves to go above and beyond with gravity
defying structures and precise, realistic details that
visually entertain the crowd, as well as creating culinary
masterpieces to delight taste buds. With Mandy, you can
have your cake and eat it too! She often is inspired by
cultural delicacies in her travels, and brings back spices
and new flavor combinations to enhance her desserts

Desserts
Crumbl
Crumbl is a popular dessert franchise with a mission to
bring friends and family together over the best desserts
in the world. Crumbl was founded in 2017 in Logan,
Utah, by Jason McGowan and Sawyer Hemsley. It has
expanded across all 50 states, Canada, and Puerto Rico.
Through its weekly rotating menu, Crumbl has offered
over 250 different desserts ranging from cookies to cakes
to brownies, all served in Crumbl’s iconic Pink Box.

Family Pizza
Summit Pizza Co.
The Summit Inn is a historic hotel in Kamas built in
1892, and for the past 30 years it has been home to a
pizza and ice cream parlor. Summit’s delicious pizza is a
hit with locals, tourists, and seasonal cabin owners. Dan
and Marcene Littledike, owners of Summit Inn, spent 10
years perfecting their dough and sauce recipes before
the restaurant opened.

Fast Food
Home of the Train/Dairy Keen
The Home of the Train/Dairy Keen is known for quality
food fast. The Mawhinney family started with the
premise that food quality should not suffer to provide
fast food. Only quality ingredients are used to make all
of the sandwiches, sides, shakes and, drinks. Food is
not prepared ahead, ensuring that the best quality food
reaches the customer.

Fried Chicken
Wingstop
Wingstop now has 23 Utah locations, but it all started
at their first store in West Jordan. They take pride in
serving the best chicken wings, chicken sandwiches and
boneless wings, all from fresh, not frozen, meats and
other ingredients. They make their own Ranch and Bleu
Cheese dressings in the restaurant. They are a chicken
wing restaurant but really shine with their 12 craveable
sauces and rubs.

Fruit Bowls
Roxberry Juice Co
With 18 Utah locations, Roxberry’s mission is to
provide customers with the best quality smoothies
and fresh-pressed juices available. They don’t believe
in syrups, purees, powders, or potions. Roxberry uses
real fruits and vegetables in all of their smoothies,
bowls, juices, and cleanses.

Gourmet Burgers
Burgers & Barley
Burgers & Barley, a new burger joint in American Fork,
is an expansion of Bona Vita Italian Bistro’s legacy of
award-winning burgers. Their messy, flavorful, fresh
burgers include the Good Life, with caramelized red
peppers, onions, mushrooms, mozzarella cheese,
and chipotle mayo; and the Johnny, with thin-sliced
ribeye steak, bacon, avocado spread, lettuce, crispy
onions, tomato, sweet and sour sauce, pepper jack
cheese, and a fried egg.

DINING MEDAL WINNERS

36 © 2025 BEST OF STATE

Greek
Santorinis
Santorinis has really changed the game with their
“Build your own” approach on Greek food. They are
far from the traditional Greek. This concept can be as
Greek or Un-Greek as you want. No Kabobs or Sticks
Pitas are tied with a string. Want a Garlic herb chicken
salad? We Got it! Our approach is totally different
from the usual mom and pop Greek places.

Grilled Chicken
Gallo Loco
Gallo Loco brings a new taste to authentic Mexican
food, and their specialties are well-known amongst
locals. Their rotisserie chicken is to absolutely die
for. They bring the best and most delicious, mouth-
watering chicken there is to Utah.

Health Foods
Roxberry Juice Co
Roxberry’s mission is to provide customers with
the best quality smoothies and fresh-pressed juices
available. They don’t believe in syrups, purees,
powders, or potions. Roxberry uses real fruits and
vegetables in all of their smoothies, bowls, juices,
and cleanses.

Ice Cream
Milk Barn Creamery
The Rose Family’s roots run deep at the family farm
in Morgan, UT. The family has been farming the same
property since it was settled in 1874. Today, the 5th
generation and some of the 6th generation of Roses
operate the farm and is committed to maintaining
the legacy and traditions of producing high-quality
dairy products that were established in previous
generations. In July 2023, Milk Barn Creamery
opened up a creamery located in Morgan, Ut to share
some of the Rose family’s favorite ice cream flavors.

Local Burgers
Home of the Train/Dairy Keen
The Home of the Train/Dairy Keen is known for
quality food fast. The Mawhinney family started with
the premise that food quality should not suffer to
provide fast food. Only quality ingredients are used to
make all of the sandwiches, sides, shakes and, drinks.
Food is not prepared ahead, ensuring that the best
quality food reaches the customer.

Local Sandwiches
Moochies
In September 2003, Moochie’s Meatballs and More
officially opened, gaining recognition for their fresh,
handmade Italian entrees, especially their renowned
Philly Cheesesteaks and meatball sandwiches. It has
established itself as a beloved culinary destination,
earning widespread recognition for its commitment
to quality, community, and handcrafted excellence.
In 2008, Moochie’s was selected to be one of seven
Salt Lake City restaurants to be featured on the Food
Network’s, “Diners, Drive-Ins and Dives” program
hosted by Guy Fieri. Of the seven Salt Lake restaurants,
Moochie’s was the only one selected by Guy to be on
the “BEST OF Diners, Drive-Ins and Dives.”

Mexican – Mobile
Sobe Eats Culinary Concepts
Chef Fernando and Chef Victor brings a wealth
of experience and passion to Sobe Eats, each
contributing their unique talents and perspectives to
the culinary journey. With a deep understanding of
Mexican gastronomy and a commitment to pushing
the boundaries of flavor and presentation, they have
played a pivotal role in shaping Sobe Eats into the
celebrated establishment it is today.

Pastries
San Diablo Artisan Churros
San Diablo Artisan Churros creates churros fresh on
demand at special events, parties, and celebrations.
The hollow churro centers are filled with traditional
flavors like Nutella, sweet cream, or dulce de leche,
as well as seasonal flavors like peppermint crème,
gingersnap spice, strawberry coulis, and more.

Shakes
Home of the Train/Dairy Keen
Home of the Train/Dairy Keen boasts more than 85
different shake flavors on the menu. Four double
barrel ice cream machines provide the muscle behind
the amazing quantity of ice cream produced—more
than 3,000 shakes per day during the summer. All of
the shakes are made thick and over the rim unless
requested thin.

Smoothies
Roxberry Juice Co
Roxberry’s mission is to provide customers with the best
quality smoothies and fresh-pressed juices available.
They don’t believe in syrups, purees, powders, or
potions. Roxberry uses real fruits and vegetables in all of
their smoothies, bowls, juices, and cleanses.

Soup
Home of the Train/Dairy Keen
The Mawhinney family has been in the restaurant
business in the Heber Valley for more than 50 years.
After many requests from customers and family,
their food service at Dairy Keen has grown to include
unique, homemade soups. From October to April,
two Dairy Keen daily soups are offered, with 47
varieties in total.

Specialty Foods
Home of the Train/Dairy Keen
Jan Mawhinney Olpin was diagnosed with celiac disease
in 2010 and has since created a gluten-free menu for
Home of the Train/Dairy Keen. Special procedures
were put in place and cooking equipment was isolated
to allow for an extensive gluten-free menu, including
burgers (and buns), fries, chicken strips, sandwiches,
soups, salads, and shakes.

Texas Barbecue
BBQ by Joe
BBQ by Joe started as a passion hobby, turned full-time
food business. Joe Solomon, owner and creator, moved
to Southern Utah with his family in 2021. Immediately
taken in by the local small business culture, Joe started
BBQ by Joe in 2022. Originally serving BBQ at small
pop ups out of Modern Farm and Artisan Co-op in
downtown St. George, Joe became an instant hit. Upon
the re-opening of the St. George Downtown Farmers
market, BBQ by Joe maintained their presence and grew
a cult-like following, participating and selling out weekly
at the Farmers Markets. BBQ by Joe is 100% scratch-
made BBQ, rubs, sauces, and recipes are all original and
equally unique.

Vietnamese
You & I Kitchen
At You & I Kitchen, delicious cuisine and exceptional
service go hand in hand with the unforgettable taste
of Vietnam. They have many specialties, including
sandwiches, pot stickers, amazing spring rolls, and
incredibly good phở noodle soup. They also make
amazing bubble and boba tea beverages. Their Thai Red
Tea boba drink is unbeatable!

DINING MEDAL WINNERS

37© 2025 BEST OF STATE

38 © 2025 BEST OF STATE

College/University Teacher
David F. Pack, Ph.D.
David F. Pack, Ph.D. has been teaching year-round
courses at various colleges & universities for over
thirty years as an adjunct professor. He teaches/has
taught for numerous prominent universities/colleges
on a consistent basis. He has extensive educational
background, obtaining multiple degrees and certificates
from prestigious institutions around the country.

Community Education
Odyssey House of Utah
Odyssey House provides extensive education on
substance use disorders, mental health, work training,
physical health, family, housing, civic engagement, and
personal accountability. In their teen programs, each
youth is enrolled in Odyssey Academy, which is an on-
site, fully accredited high school with highly experienced
educators, small class sizes, and assignments tailored to
each student’s interests and ability.

Culinary Education
Park City Culinary Institute
Park City Culinary Institute’s owner, Laurie Moldawer,
studied at Le Cordon Bleu Paris and Institute of Culinary
Education in New York. Once in Utah, she recognized
the need for a culinary education program that did not
require major investment, yet still provided exceptional
instruction. So she founded Park City Culinary Institute,
where chefs are notable, ingredients are high quality,
and students are ready to hit the ground running in just
6 short weeks.

Curriculum Development
Rocky Mountain University
Occupational Therapy
Based in Provo, Rocky Mountain University of Health
Professions (RMU) is one of Utah’s leaders in graduate
healthcare education. Since its humble beginnings as
a small physical therapy institution in 1998, RMU has
prepared thousands of students to excel as clinicians,
educators, researchers, and healthcare leaders with a
noble mission and passion for humanity. Improving
the human condition one person at a time is at the
heart of RMU.

Early Childhood Educator
Jennifer Brown
Since taking on the role of Administrative Director,
Jennifer has been instrumental in the growth and
success of the American Preparatory Academy
Bright Beginnings staff childcare program. She has
expanded the program to four locations in just six
years and developed a curriculum and coaching
system for the staff.

students enrolled in arts courses. They strive to integrate
the arts into everyday learning, celebrating student
creativity and diversity, and inspire the next generation
of artists and performers.

Ballet Instruction
Teruyo Davis
Teruyo (Terry) Davis has been the owner and artistic
director of SLC Ballet for over 16 years. After moving
from Japan to the United States, she obtained a BFA
and an MFA in Ballet from the University of Utah. She
provides high quality ballet training to students ages
3 through adult, some as mature as in their 70s. She
fosters a studio environment that provides the dancers
and staff with a strong community, inspiration,
encouragement, positive support, friendships, and an
appropriate level of being challenged at each stage of
the dancers’ development.

Charter School
American Preparatory Academy
In 2002, a small group of committed parents came
together with a bold vision—to create a school that
would provide unparalleled academic excellence and
character development for their children. Today, over
20 years later, American Preparatory Academy (APA)
has become one of Utah’s top-performing public
charter schools, recognized nationally for its ability
to close achievement gaps and produce exceptional
student outcomes.

College/University Administrator
Dr. Cameron K. Martin
Dr. Cameron K. Martin was named the second
president of Rocky Mountain University of Health
Professions (RMU) in December 2022. He started
presidential duties on January 1, 2023. President
Martin’s leadership is rooted in compassion,
inclusivity, and a deep commitment to student and
institutional success. He fosters a culture of excellence,
collaboration, and innovation, ensuring that RMU is
not just a place of learning but a community where
individuals feel valued, supported, and empowered to
help others.

College/University Student
Garrett Parry
Garrett Parry is a first-generation college student.
After excelling in finance courses and receiving
summa cum laude honors with a Finance degree
from Brigham Young University, he realized his true
passion was in healthcare and is pursuing a Master
of Medical Science and Doctor of Medical Science
at Rocky Mountain University of Health Professions.
He is dedicated to gaining the skills and knowledge
necessary to provide high-quality patient care. Garrett
is a husband and father of two kids, and his family
plays an integral role in his journey.

EDUCATION MEDAL WINNERS
Division Chair
Education
Allison Trần

Adjunct Professor
David F. Pack, Ph.D.
David F. Pack teaches at Brigham Young University,
Brigham Young University–Idaho, Salt Lake
Community College, AmeriTech College, and Western
Governors University. He teaches both online and in
person, for departments of communication, business,
fine arts, and exercise science. David builds strong
relationships with his students and has a gift for
generating class participation.

Administrator K–12
Eryn Woolston
Eryn Woolston’s journey into education was shaped
by her deep passion for child development and
a commitment to creating meaningful learning
experiences. A graduate of the University of Utah, she
currently serves as the Elementary School Director
and heads the District 3rd grade team at American
Preparatory Academy (APA). Through her leadership,
innovation, and service, Eryn has made a lasting
impact on students, educators, and families across
Utah. Erin is a loving wife and mother, balancing her
commitment to education with her devotion to family.

Adult Education
Odyssey House of Utah
Odyssey House provides extensive education on
substance use disorders, mental health, work
training, physical health, family, housing, civic
engagement, and personal accountability. In their
teen programs, each youth is enrolled in Odyssey
Academy, which is an on-site, fully accredited high
school with highly experienced educators, small class
sizes, and assignments tailored to each student’s
interests and ability.

Alternative Education
Odyssey House of Utah
Odyssey House provides extensive education on
substance use disorders, mental health, work
training, physical health, family, housing, civic
engagement, and personal accountability. In their
teen programs, each youth is enrolled in Odyssey
Academy, which is an on-site, fully accredited high
school with highly experienced educators, small class
sizes, and assignments tailored to each student’s
interests and ability.

Arts in Education
Davis School District
Fine Arts Department
The Davis School District is the second largest district in
Utah, serving more than 72,000 students, including over
35,000 elementary students across 90+ schools. The
district is deeply committed to arts education, with over
34,000 elementary students and over 39,000 secondary

39© 2025 BEST OF STATE

Early Childhood Music Education
Trina Christensen
Trina Christensen is a K-12 music educator who has
taught over 300 students in her 28-year teaching career.
Not only is she maintaining a private studio, but she has
taught orchestra to elementary students, middle school
and high school students after school. Trina has also
positively impacted the lives of over 3,000 students and
their families through the various music organizations
she has been a part of and/or led during the last 20 years.

Educational Institution
Wasatch School District
Serving over 8,500 students, Wasatch County School
District (WCSD) serves the entire Wasatch County and is
deeply committed to ensuring every student acquires the
knowledge, skills, and dispositions needed for personal
success and community contribution. The district’s
transformative journey is anchored in a district-wide
implementation of Professional Learning Communities
(PLC), which has driven significant gains in student
achievement. WCSD is a top 5 performer statewide in all
tested subjects, having notably become the only public
school district in Utah to receive the prestigious Model
District PLC award from Solution Tree.

Educational Service
Odyssey House of Utah
Odyssey has a solid reputation for providing
comprehensive services for those struggling with
addiction, mental health, and physical health
issues. The programs are built on evidence-based
models and designed to help educate people on
how to successfully overcome each barrier they
may face. They rigorously address mental health,
trauma, addiction, work education, physical health,
rebuilding family relationships, obtaining a degree,
and personal accountability.

Finance Education
USU Extension
Personal Finance Education Program
Classes are provided both virtually and in-person.
Resources include a free, national award-winning debt
elimination tool, self-paced homebuyer education,
self-paced personal finance course, a research-based
curriculum, a national award-winning blog and
social media platform, national award-winning radio
segments, award-winning Empowering Financial
Wellness grant team, television and radio outreach
education, a request a class/host a class portal, and
award winning resources and publications.

Food & Beverage Service Education
Davis Education Foundation
Davis Education Foundation is the public nonprofit
fundraising arm for Davis School District. Its mission
is “to remove barriers to learning, provide educational
opportunities to every student, and create partnerships
that connect the community through giving.” As a funder
and facilitator of the food and beverage services program
at the Catalyst Center, Davis School District’s profession-

based learning magnet school, the Foundation sees the
value of a career pipeline in this industry and is proud to
support the students and instructor in their efforts.

Independent Education Advisor
Sarah Sandberg
A wife and a mother of three, Sarah Sandberg’s volunteers
her time to assist high school students navigate the college
admissions process. She is extremely proud to have
helped dozens of students find interests and talents, find
a college that’s a good fit for them, locate scholarships to
make college affordable. Sarah holds a bachelor’s degree
from Brown University and a master’s degree from BYU’s
Marriott School of Business.

Individual Music Instruction
Trina Christensen
Trina Christensen is driven and passionate to make
music education accessible to all students regardless of
their circumstances. She does not hesitate to volunteer

to help on committees, with workshops, and finds joy
in teaching others. She has also taught lessons and
coached groups free of charge to help them to prepare
for performances.

Internship Program
Davis School District
Teacher Academy Schools
The Teacher Academy School program is an in-
depth, teacher preparation program embedded
in two Davis District schools: South Clearfield
and Sunburst Elementary. This program is
designed to provide an immersive, school-based
experience for university students, professors,
paraprofessionals, and novice teachers. Through
innovative university partnerships, these model
schools offer university students scholarship
opportunities and paid learning experiences
with master teacher mentors in both general
elementary and special education settings.

EDUCATION MEDAL WINNERS

40 © 2025 BEST OF STATE

EDUCATION MEDAL WINNERS
Language Competency
Hispanic Institute of Utah
Currently the Hispanic Institute of Utah works as
a verification and development center so that any
Spanish-speaking person can certify their level of
English. We have an agreement with Siele, where we
help in the Spanish Certification exams in four tests:
Reading and Listening Comprehension, Written
Expression and Interaction and Spoken Expression
and Interaction.

Language Instruction
Lumos Language School
Lumos Language School is a dynamic institution
dedicated to providing high-quality English language
education to students from diverse backgrounds. With
a strong emphasis on practical communication skills,
cultural immersion, and flexible learning options,
Lumos Language School aims to bridge the gap for
those seeking to enhance their English proficiency
for academic, professional, or personal growth. The
school is committed to fostering an inclusive and
supportive environment where students can thrive
and achieve their language learning goals.

Management/Employee Training
Jennifer Walstad
Jennifer Walstad has been a driving force behind
the transformation of public education for over
two decades. Jennifer oversees all training and
professional development for the Academic
American Prep staff. She is a highly qualified educator
with a Bachelor’s Degree in Elementary Education
and Theater Arts from Southern Utah University and
a Master’s Degree in Education Leadership from
Central Michigan University.

Mental Health Education
Odyssey House of Utah
Odyssey has a solid reputation for providing
comprehensive services for those struggling with
addiction, mental health, and physical health
issues. The programs are built on evidence-based
models and designed to help educate people on
how to successfully overcome each barrier they
may face. They rigorously address mental health,
trauma, addiction, work education, physical health,
rebuilding family relationships, obtaining a degree,
and personal accountability.

Music Education - Private
Caleb Chapman’s Soundhouse
Caleb Chapman’s Soundhouse is led by Chapman,
a Grammy-nominated music educator, producer,
author, performer, and executive. Caleb’s vision and
accomplishments have marked him as a global leader
in music education. And in the face of the pandemic
closing down virtually all music rehearsals and
performances, Caleb single-handedly pioneered a
new method for rehearsing bands online, and in the
process became one of the world’s leading experts in
leveraging technology in music education.

On-line Education
Davis Connect Online School
Founded in 2011 by the Davis School District, Davis
Connect Online School has reshaped online learning
in Utah, especially during the transformative 2023-
24 school year. As a full K-12 virtual platform, Davis
Connect has expanded its curriculum and technology
to serve students statewide, transforming online
education in Utah through academic excellence,
student success, and innovative leadership.

Principal
Dr. Galey Colosimo
Dr. Galey Colosimo has been a faithful leader in the
field of education working in Catholic Schools for
over 45 years. He currently serves as the principal of
Juan Diego Catholic High School. With 25 years as
the principal of Juan Diego Catholic High School, he
is one of Utah’s most tenured principals. He is also
the first principal of the school. Through his tenure as
principal, he has handed out over 3,700 high school
diplomas. Dr. Colosimo has also furthered access to
private education in the state of Utah, helping pass
critical bills for students and schools statewide.

Private Preschool
Kids Village
The skills learned at Kids Village are carefully curated
experiences designed to provide lifelong learning
and development. Students engage in subjects from
math and reading to cooking and nutrition, music
and drama, geography and foreign language, and
more, mastering real-world skills and values as well as
traditional academics that will last them throughout
their education, careers, and life.

Private School K–12
Juan Diego Catholic High School
Juan Diego Catholic High School (JDCHS) is part of
the Skaggs Catholic Center Campus, which houses
3 schools. Ours, the high school, opened in 1999 as a
co-educational 9-12 school and this year we celebrate
25 years of education and community. Owned by the
Catholic Diocese of Salt Lake City, the school has an
enrollment of 670 students and is fully accredited by
the state of Utah and the Western Catholic Education
Association (WCEA).

Professional Organizing and Training
Organize Simply
Professional Home Organization
In 2000, Tracy Helm initiated her professional
organizing journey by aiding a childhood
friend. With a keen eye for detail, she designed a
customized system tailored to her friend’s family
and lifestyle. What started as a personal favor soon
blossomed into a thriving business with Organize
Simply opening its doors in 2014. Through word-
of-mouth, referrals and glowing recommendations,
Tracy’s passion for creating order in chaotic spaces
has flourished. She finds immense joy in bringing
order and efficiency to busy lives and homes!

Public Preschool Program
Davis Head Start and Title I Preschool
The Davis Head Start and Early Head Start program
(DHS) has served children and families in poverty
across Davis County for over 35 years. As a federally
funded grantee of the Davis School District, DHS is
uniquely positioned as the only Head Start program
in Utah operated by a school district. Each year, DHS
provides comprehensive early childhood education
to 401 Head Start children ages 3-5. They remain
steadfast in their mission to close the achievement gap
for impoverished children by providing high-impact
early education and family engagement.

Public School K–12
Beehive Science and
Technology Academy
Beehive Science and Technology Academy is a tuition-
free, public charter school for K-12, providing students
with opportunities not found in public schools. Beehive
consistently offers smaller class sizes, more individualized
attention, and fewer problems that are common in larger
public schools. Project-based learning is at the center
of Beehive Academy’s STEM learning and certification
programs, leading to increased student engagement,
collaborative work ethic and real-world projects that
showcase students’ understanding and acquisition of
academic vocabulary, math conceptual mastery, and
problem-solving/reasoning skills.

Seminar Training/Education
Trina Christensen
Trina Christensen has been the director of operations
and finance of the Intermountain Suzuki String
Institute for 16 years and the director of Sistema Utah
for 8 years. She hires and trains teachers, recruits and
oversees volunteers, writes grants, coordinates travel,
arranges meals, ensures student safety, coordinates
instrument needs, and so much more. Making music
education accessible to all students has become
Trina’s life mission.

Social Dance Instruction
Kim Leung
Kim Leung of Westie Kim LLC teaches group classes
and private lessons throughout the Salt Lake valley.
He specializes in West Coast Swing and other swing
dance styles such as Lindy Hop and East Coast Swing.
By promoting a fun environment with a curiosity to
learn and draw from the diversity of other dances, he
inspires his students to be physically active, explore
personal creativity, and to have fun in a positive
social environment.

Special Education
Kids on the Move
Kids on the Move is a non-profit organization that
provides services to children with disabilities and
developmental delays and/or come from low-income
families. We address the concerns that impact the
cognitive, physical, emotional and social development
of children and the overall health of families.

41© 2025 BEST OF STATE

EDUCATION MEDAL WINNERS
Special Interest Education
American Preparatory Academy
Character Development
American Preparatory Academy (APA) is serious
about the responsibility of public education to prepare
students academically as well as professionally to
become strong, virtuous citizens and the leaders of the
next generation. They focus on developing character
and the social skills of leadership. To accomplish
this goal, every APA student is a part of the Character
Development youth organization. APA believes every
student is capable of learning leadership skills and
mastering the tools of social civility that will propel them
to positions of leadership in any vocation they choose.

Student K-12
Elise Christenson
Elise Christenson, a Senior at APA West Valley, is a
passionate student, leader, and advocate who has
turned challenges into opportunities for growth and
service. She never lets challenges define her. Instead,
she embraces them, serving as Senior Class Vice
President, a National Merit Scholarship Finalist, a
Sterling Scholar finalist, and a mentor to others. Elise
approaches every endeavor with faith, perseverance,
and a deep desire to uplift those around her. She is a
testament to the power of hard work, community, and
an unwavering dedication to honoring her family’s
sacrifices and the blessings of liberty.

Support Personnel
Doug Anderson
Doug Anderson is the Davis School District Utility
Services Director. He manages the district’s energy
systems across all schools and district office
buildings. His leadership and expertise have been
instrumental in numerous projects and initiatives,
such as implementing technology to maximize the
district’s energy efficiency. Doug’s dedication to
improving educational infrastructure and ensuring
resources are utilized effectively have not only reduced
environmental impact but also provided significant
savings to the community.

Teacher – Elementary School
Courtney Christiansen
Courtney Christensen is a 4th grade Language Arts
teacher at Beehive Science and Technology Academy
in Sandy. While interning at a local elementary school
during her senior year of high school, she discovered the
joy of guiding and inspiring curious, young minds. She
completed her degree in Elementary Education in 2017.
Since then, Courtney has been creating a dynamic and
engaging learning environment for her students as well
as providing opportunities to foster empathy, kindness
and generosity through community service.

Teacher – High School
Kyle Guymon
Kyle Guymon has taught in Davis School District for 16
years, teaching Ceramics 1,2,3, AP 3D Studio Design,
Art Foundations, CE Art History 1010, and creating
the Printmaking course and program for Davis School
District. He has built a very positive, welcoming safe
environment for any and all students who walk through
his classroom door and encourages his students to share
their talent in every opportunity possible, from having
students enter work into district, state, and National
shows to publishing locally and nationally. The National
Council of Education for the Ceramic Arts (NCECA) is
coming to SLC for the first time and asked Kyle to be the
committee chairperson for the largest clay conference of
its kind in the world.

Teacher – Kindergarten
RaeAnn Shelley
Born and raised in Woods Cross, RaeAnn Shelley
teaches public full-day kindergarten in Clearfield and
teaches all new-to-English students for the whole grade.
She has taught dual immersion classes in Utah for many
years as well as regular kindergarten classes with a
focus on ESL students. RaeAnn understands the ever-
increasing number of refugees and foreign immigrants
coming to Utah and uses her language and culture
knowledge to assist them and their families. Her ability
to speak Spanish fluently to parents and young new-
to-English students puts them at ease and helps them
understand the goals and focus of the classroom. Since
2019, she has been a refugee foster parent, fostering
youth from various countries and hosted three Chinese
exchange teachers over the years.

Teacher - Middle School
Peyton Carter
Peyton Carter has been a middle school teacher at
Beehive Science and Technology Academy in Sandy
since 2021. He completed student teaching and his
first year as a teacher during the Pandemic, learning
how to teach and manage a class remotely, hybrid, and
in person. Since then, he has developed his pedagogy
around the values of diversity, equity, and inclusion
in addition to critical thinking skills. Peyton believes a
successful classroom culture and student engagement
emerge from the community formed among the
students and focuses on “fostering student autonomy
with the goal to empower students to have confidence
in their reading and writing abilities, and a general
appreciation for learning.”

Teacher Training
Jennifer Walstad
Jennifer Walstad has been a driving force behind
the transformation of public education for over two
decades. Jennifer oversees all training and professional
development for the Academic American Prep staff. She
is a highly qualified educator with a Bachelor’s Degree in
Elementary Education and Theater Arts from Southern
Utah University and a Master’s Degree in Education
Leadership from Central Michigan University.

Theatrical Instruction
Hillcrest High School Theatre
The Hillcrest High School Theatre Department has
been a central force in the school and community
culture for over 50 years. Known for producing large
and professional-quality productions, as well as its
continued success at State and National competitions,
Hillcrest Theatre provides opportunities for students,
and high-quality experiences for audiences.

Vocational Training - Private
Odyssey House of Utah
Odyssey has a solid reputation for providing
comprehensive services for those struggling with
addiction, mental health, and physical health
issues. The programs are built on evidence-based
models and designed to help educate people on
how to successfully overcome each barrier they
may face. They rigorously address mental health,
trauma, addiction, work education, physical health,
rebuilding family relationships, obtaining a degree,
and personal accountability.

Vocational Training – Public
Mountainland Technical College
Celebrating its 35th anniversary in 2024, Mountainland
Technical College (MTECH) is Utah’s largest and fastest-
growing technical college. Students benefit from world-
class faculty, and cutting-edge facilities and equipment
that ensure a learning environment that fosters growth
and development. MTECH remains dedicated to its
mission “to enhance the employability of individuals
through market-driven career and technical education.”
In 2024, they conferred the most certificates in the state
and led industry standards with an 88% placement rate
into related employment.

Volunteer Service
Juan Diego Catholic High School
Senior Service Project
The mission of Juan Diego Catholic High School
(JDCHS) reaches beyond providing a well-rounded
education by integrating the Senior Service Project
(SSP). The SSP is for all JDCHS seniors to broaden their
awareness of marginalized communities by placing
them at a non-profit agency where they are asked to
volunteer 40+ hours in one week’s time. Through this
experience JDCHS hopes to prepare young men and
women to be grounded in Christian principles and treat
all human life with dignity, reverence, and respect. This
service experience often is a pivotal experience that
shapes how students choose to live as adults beyond
their high school years.

42 © 2025 BEST OF STATE

HOSPITALITY, TRAVEL & TOURISM MEDAL WINNERS
Adventure Travel
Western River Expeditions/
Moab Adventure Center
Western River Expeditions is one of the largest, most
successful adventure travel companies in the world.
The Moab Adventure Center provides a one-stop
location for people to book all of their adventure
activities—whitewater rafting, Hummer tours, off-road
driving tours, guided hiking in Arches National Park,
horseback riding, mountain biking, scenic air tours,
climbing, canyoneering, and jet boat tours.

Air Transportation
SkyWest, Inc.
SkyWest employs more than 2,600 Utah-based
employees, with its headquarters in Southern Utah
and its largest maintenance hangar and training facility
in Salt Lake City. Additionally, as a key driver of Utah’s
economic engine and global access, SkyWest operates
hundreds of daily flights out of Salt Lake City, as well
as daily departures out of St. George, Cedar City, and
Provo. SkyWest’s business success, corporate culture,
innovation, and philanthropic efforts have made it
Utah’s premier airline and have provided a meaningful
boost to the Utah economy for over 50 years.

Attractions
Best Friends Animal Sanctuary
Set in the majestic red rock splendor of Southern Utah,
Best Friends Animal Sanctuary is America’s largest no-
kill sanctuary and a beacon for animal lovers from all
over the world. The Sanctuary is a one-of-a-kind place
where dogs, cats, pigs, bunnies, horses, goats, birds, and
all manner of wildlife can heal and grow.

Bed & Breakfast
Heber Senator Bed and Breakfast
The Heber Senator Bed and Breakfast in Heber City,
Utah, was originally built as a private residence in 1902.
For many decades the 8500 sq ft, 13-bedroom Victorian-
era mansion was the largest home in the region. The
home was purchased and lovingly converted to a bed
and breakfast in 2018, and no expense was spared in
completely renovating the home from top to bottom,
re-introducing vintage furnishings and decor from the
early 1900’s to give it an authentic period feel. The Heber
Senator Bed and Breakfast excels in quality, details and
overall guest experience.

Boutique Caterers
wood.ash.rye
wood.ash.rye has provided luxury on and off premise
catering services in Southern Utah since it’s opening
in 2020. They specialize in creating exceptional
experiences through customized restaurant caliber
cuisine, beverage, and event services to Utah’s premier
events as well as to some of the most elite and highly
recognizable brands & in the country.

Boutique Lodging
Best Friends Roadhouse & Mercantile
Launched in 2019, the Best Friends Roadhouse and
Mercantile in Kanab, Utah, was designed to be the
most-pet centric hotel in America. The luxurious,
unique amenities at the Roadhouse are not just for
human travelers, but their dogs and cats as well.
Accommodations in the 40 rooms — which include
trundle beds and wall cubbies designed especially for
dogs and cats —were designed for people traveling with
their pets. For guests staying without pets, dogs and cats
from the Sanctuary are available for sleepovers. Plus,
there’s an on-site dog park and pet washing station.

Boutique Travel Agency
Cruise Planners - Mark Young
Cruise Planners is a premier boutique travel agency
specializing in customized travel experiences, with
a strong focus on luxury, group, and incentive travel.
Their advisors, including Utah-based travel expert
Mark Young, leverage deep industry relationships and
extensive destination knowledge to provide seamless,
high-touch service. Whether planning luxury cruises,
guided tours, or customized adventures, Cruise Planners
delivers exceptional travel solutions with the care and
attention expected from a boutique agency.

Bridal/Wedding Services
Duet Weddings & Events
With over 30 years of combined experience planning
luxury destination events worldwide, Michelle Cousins
and Mara Mazdzer recognized the need for a local firm
specializing in high-end weddings for Utah-based and
destination couples. From this vision, DUET Weddings
& Events was born. A curated network of over 500
top-tier vendors along with a seamless coordination,
artistic design, and an unwavering commitment to
excellence has cemented DUET as a premier choice for
extraordinary, high-touch celebrations.

Caterers
Hill Top Hospitality
Hill’s Kitchen was founded with the mission of providing
exceptional catering experiences that combine culinary
excellence, seamless service, and personalized attention
to detail. Led by a team of experienced chefs and event
professionals, Hill’s Kitchen specializes in customized
menus featuring the finest seasonal, locally sourced
ingredients. From corporate luncheons to weddings,
private parties, and large-scale events, Hill’s Kitchen has
become a trusted name in Utah’s catering scene.

Convention and Meeting Facilities
The Grand America Hotel
Since opening in 2001, The Grand America Hotel
has offered some of the most diverse and luxurious
convention and meeting facilities in the state. With
more than 75,000 square feet of flexible meeting space,

a dedicated convention services staff, and an expert
banquets staff, it is the only Salt Lake property that can
accommodate events of up to 2,000 guests.

Day Spas
The Grand Spa
The Grand Spa at The Grand America Hotel is more than
20,000 square feet, featuring couples massage rooms,
experience showers, a couples relaxation lounge, wet
treatment rooms, facial rooms, salon stations, a fitness
center, an indoor pool, and an outdoor pool. The Grand
Spa recently received the renowned Forbes Travel
Guide’s Five-Star Spa Award.

Destination Management
RMC- Resorts | Mountains | Cities
RMC (Resorts | Mountains | Cities) is the largest privately
owned destination management company in North
America, and Utah’s top destination management
company. Since its founding in 1989, it has grown from
its first location in Aspen to an extensive network of
more than 30+ destinations across the U.S., providing
premier event-management services to distinguished
corporate clientele, incentive groups, associations,
travel and meeting planners. RMC offers unforgettable
experiences at dream destinations and resorts
throughout North America.

Destination Spas
Serenity Spa by Westgate
Westgate is one of Park City’s premier ski-in/ski-out
properties and is home to Serenity Spa. Spanning almost
30,000 square feet, this amazing destination retreat has
17 treatment rooms and a full spa, offering customized
massage and skincare, aromatherapy steam rooms, a
candlelit waterfall Jacuzzi grotto, a couples hideaway
package, and much more to help guests unwind.

Entertainment Venue
Thanksgiving Point
Known for the Museum of Ancient Life, the Museum
of Natural Curiosity, and its magnificent 55-acre estate
gardens with the largest manmade waterfall in the
Western Hemisphere, Thanksgiving Point brings in 3
million guests a year. They provide more than 140 days
of public events each year and offer Farm Country,
Cornbelly’s, Bikram Yoga, dining, and golf.

Event Cakes & Confections
Cake by Alessandra
Ale grew up in Brazil. She has fond memories of baking
and cooking with her mom. She has kept the desire of
learning by taking many baking courses throughout the
years both nationally and internationally. She started
cake decorating in 2007 as a hobby. Since then, she has
joined her love for baking with decorating and now owns
Cake by Alessandra. Her work has been highlighted in
many local and national publications. From whimsical,

Division Chair
Hospitality, Travel & Tourism
Meagan Crafts-Price

43© 2025 BEST OF STATE

HOSPITALITY, TRAVEL & TOURISM MEDAL WINNERS
Event/Performance Venue
Thanksgiving Point
Thanksgiving Point provides dozens of hugely popular
public events, and it offers venues for thousands of
private events each year, such as corporate meetings,
family reunions, birthday parties, and weddings. All of
Thanksgiving Point’s venues and attractions brought
more than 3 million visitors in 2019 and 1.2 million
visitor in 2020.

Experiential Dining
Viking Yurt
Located at the top of the Crescent Lift on Park City
Mountain Resort, the Viking Yurt provides an outdoor
adventure of comfort and cuisine. Guests are transported
to the Yurt in an open sleigh, tucked in with oversized
fleece-lined, water-resistant blankets. After a journey
up 1800 vertical feet with breathtaking views, guests
are offered a six course Norwegian inspired dining
experience. The whole Viking Yurt encounter has earned
glowing reviews.

Fairs, Festivals, & Events
Thanksgiving Point Tulip Festival
The Tulip Festival, one of the main highlights at
Thanksgiving Point, is a month-long celebration of tulips
and springtime with almost 300,000 tulips imported
from Holland and blooming throughout the festival.
Several activities associated with the Tulip Festival
include the 5k race, Dutch Day, and the Tulip Princess
Tea Party, bringing in more than 100,000 guests.

Film Festival
FilmQuest
FilmQuest celebrates the majesty and might of
filmmaking in the genres of fantasy, horror, sci-fi, and
the beyond. They received more than 1,000 submissions
from 70 countries last year, and more than 200 films
were screened, including feature films, documentaries,
shorts, music videos, animated films, and student films.
Filmmakers in 2020 were awarded with $20,000 in
awards and prizes.

Fishing/River Outfitters
Western River Expeditions/
Moab Adventure Center
Western River Expeditions has been operating whitewater
rafting expeditions on the Colorado and Green rivers
since 1961. The company has crafted what many
consider to be the best rafting vacations in the world.
Western River’s training now includes “Native Voices
on the Colorado” to help guides interpret the resources
of the Colorado River from the perspective of the Native
American cultures affiliated with the river.

Food Tours
Local Food Walking Tours
Local Food Walking Tours, in the heart of Utah, has
established itself as a premier culinary adventure,
offering unforgettable food walking experiences in
both Salt Lake City and Park City. With a deep passion
for local cuisine and culture, their tours have become
a must-do attraction for food enthusiasts and travelers.
They specialize in showcasing the unique flavors of Utah,

providing guests with a taste of both traditional and
contemporary dishes.

Golf Courses
Red Ledges Club
Red Ledges is a private four-season recreational
development in Heber Valley. Its celebrated 18-hole
Jack Nicklaus Signature Golf Course opened in July 2009
and was named the No.1 Best New Private Golf Course
in the nation by Golf Magazine. The 7,653-yard course
is considered one of the most scenic, well-designed
courses in the country. GolfWeek Magazine has named
Red Ledges one of America’s Best Residential courses for
the past 11 years.

Ground Transportation
Four Seasons Concierge Transportation
Four Seasons Concierge’s professional drivers provide
private, elite transportation services in luxury cars and
SUVs in Park City and the surrounding communities.
Their prices never surge, they provide free booster seats
and car seats, and they offer a convenient reservation
system on their mobile app.

Hospitality Services
The Little America Hotel
Little America Hotel stands as an iconic landmark in
downtown Salt Lake City, holding its distinguished
place in both the city’s skyline and the hearts of locals
for decades. This beloved institution offers visitors a
warm welcome with its elegant lobby featuring gleaming
chandeliers, cozy fireplaces, and a genuine sense of
hospitality. Positioned between the majestic Wasatch
and Oquirrh Mountain Ranges, Little America serves as
an ideal home base for exploring all the city has to offer.
The hotel provides a tranquil urban oasis just minutes
from Salt Lake International Airport and steps away
from the city’s vibrant cultural scene, dining options, and
entertainment venues.

Hotels
The Grand America Hotel
This truly world-class hotel was built to welcome the
world to the 2002 Winter Olympic Games and was host
to NBC and other top corporate sponsors. Designed
as a European hotel of American scale, the 24-story
hotel offers spacious rooms, award-winning cuisine,
the amazing Grand Spa, a business center, concierge
and valet services, a unique toy boutique, and 75,000
square feet of meeting and event space, including an
exceptional, award-winning restaurant.

Motels
Apache Motel
Built in 1954, accommodating the then-burgeoning
Western-themed movie industry, the Apache Motel
was restored and remodeled in 2020. Located on
Moab’s original Main Street, this local gem is listed
on the National Historic Registry. Through extensive
renovations, the iconic building has retained its Old West
Charm. In addition to themed merch, they also have
John Wayne memorabilia, snacks for the trail, a pool
area with a snack counter and old-fashioned scooped
ice cream, a dog wash, a bicycle repair station, and a

hand sculpture sugar creations to elegant wedding
cakes, Ale is always up for a delicious challenge.

Event Entertainment
DJ Cooper Brown -
One Above Entertainment
Cooper Brown at One Above Entertainment started as a
DJ and MC at age 16, and went full-time in 2020, during
the pandemic. Through stellar service and diamond-
level entertainment, they grew and expanded both their
staff and services. Cooper continues to provide his high-
energy and personalized DJ services to private events,
wedding, and public gatherings of all scale. You won’t
find a more prepared and professional DJ, who can keep
crowd hopping and dancing through the night, even
through unexpected event complications, including
power outages! He’s prepared for anything, and always
offers a touch of deeply personalized service. If you want
a DJ that will make your special event truly special, DJ
Cooper Brown is the premiere resource in the state.

Event Floral & Decor
Artisan Bloom
Since 2000, Artisan Bloom has quickly risen through
the ranks in the wedding industry, and their work has
been featured in multiple major print magazines and
online publications, making Artisan Bloom a nationally
recognized influencer in the world of weddings. Their
incredibly talented designers are dedicated to bringing
consistently beautiful, meticulous design and top notch
service to each and every event.

Event Games & Features
Empire Casino Parties
Empire Casino Parties provides faux casino style
entertainment for conventions, parties and holiday
events. It has grown significantly every year since its
inception. They offer the nicest, fanciest materials and
personnel, offering a unique, entertaining, and very
upscale experience.

Event Planner
Michelle Leo Events
Michelle Leo Events (MLE) is a fully licensed and insured
event planning firm offering a one-on-one planning and
design process that is both intentional and tailored to the
individual needs of each client. MLE delivers gorgeous
details, creative designs, and unforgettable results for
weddings, social soirees, corporate events, private
parties, editorial styling, and more.

Event Production
Skylark Productions
Skylark Productions is a premier full-service event
production company that provides audio/visual
(AV) services, Entertainment, and full-scale event
management for corporate and luxury events
worldwide. Founded and owned by Michael Tobian,
Skylark Productions has remained at the forefront
of event production innovation through its cutting-
edge technology, creative event design, and unique
approaches to live events. Skylark consistently delivers
superior results for Fortune 500 companies, large-scale
conventions, and high-profile clients.

44 © 2025 BEST OF STATE

steel caldron where guests can roast complementary
s’mores each night over a wood fire. The Apache
offers an amazing array of charm and amenities, with
incredibly comfortable beds, fantastic showers, house-
brewed kick-ass coffee, and warm cinnamon rolls every
morning. If you’re in Moab, don’t miss the chance to stay
at this awesome motel.

Museums
Museum of Natural Curiosity
Opened in 2014, the Museum of Natural Curiosity at
Thanksgiving Point encourages learning while being
active. The museum consists of a 5-acre outdoor space
and 4 indoor galleries: Rainforest encourages healthy
lifestyles, Kidopolis is a kid-scaled cityscape with winding
streets and buildings, WaterWorks develops STEM skills,
and one gallery changes annually with exhibitions from
across the country.

Recreation/Activity Facility
FatCats
FatCats began in 1999 on the back of a napkin, when
two friends, Dave Rutter, a restaurant owner, and Sean
Collins, a bowling equipment sales executive, wanted to
create an experience where families could enjoy quality
food and superior entertainment. Opening in Salt Lake
City, FatCats was eagerly embraced by the community
for its fresh take on the bowling facility and great food
where families and guests of all ages and skill levels could

come and enjoy their time with one another. They’ve
since expanded into Colorado, Idaho, and Arizona, and
have introduced all-reclining move theaters into their
most recent facilities.

Ski Resorts
Westgate Park City Resort & Spa
Westgate Park City Resort & Spa has earned the
coveted AAA Four-Diamond rating and is a Forbes
Recommended property, offering unique ski-in/ski-out
accommodations, a ski valet service, and 300 ski runs
ranging from beginner to professional. Guests enjoy
luxurious studio to 4-bedroom villas, and the cuisine at
both Edge Steakhouse and Drafts Burger Bar is elegant
and all-American.

Take-out/Informal Catering
Beehive Meals
Beehive Meals was created to ‘help take the busy work
out of family dinner’ allowing our customers to skip the
steps of planning, shopping, and preparing a meal. All
that’s left is to throw the meal in your slow cooker, maybe
add a side or two, and then enjoy with your family!

Travel Agencies
Morris Columbus Travel
Columbus Travel is a full-service travel agency obsessed
with service and value. Columbus was named as one
of the Top 10 Travel Agencies in America by the Mark

HOSPITALITY, TRAVEL & TOURISM MEDAL WINNERS
Travel Corporation, which receives travel industry peer
nominations and investigates with an extensive “mystery
shopper” approach to find the best, most knowledgeable,
and most helpful travel agencies.

Vacation Rentals
Moose Management Vacation Rentals
Moose Management Vacation rentals is a business born
from service and resilience. Unlike many businesses
that launch with a well-defined goal, this particular
venture developed organically through word of mouth.
What began as a favor for friends quickly evolved into a
thriving enterprise, built on a foundation of exceptional
service and a keen understanding of customer needs.
Moose Management’s record-breaking growth in 2024
is a testament to its strategic vision and superior service.
The company not only met its expansion goals but far
exceeded expectations, continuing to dominate Utah’s
vacation rental market.

Wedding Venue
The Grand America Hotel
With flexible indoor and outdoor event space, an award-
winning pastry team, and a seasoned Catering Services
team, The Grand America Hotel provides families
and wedding planners the professional expertise and
resources needed to create a memorable and flawless
wedding experience.

VOTED BEST OF STATE - AGAIN!

Unpack Organize Settle-Ins

(805) 244-8150 OrganizeSimply.com OrganizeSimply.com

We organize homes to be functional,
beautiful, and totally you.

SPECIALIZING IN MOVE-IN’S

45© 2025 BEST OF STATE

MERCHANDISING & CONSUMER SERVICES MEDAL WINNERS
Assisted Living Facilities
Stellar Senior Living
Established in 2012, Stellar Senior Living is a family
owned and operated company, based in Salt Lake City,
Utah, and managing 31 senior living communities
throughout the Western United States. “Our supreme
goal is to do and be the best in all we undertake, and
to provide a Stellar life for our residents, their families,
and our employees,” says Evrett Benton, Stellar Senior
Living founder and CEO. While they have continued
to grow throughout the West, the core Stellar
family, operations, and award-winning senior living
communities are at the heart in the Wasatch valley.

Auditory Services
Timpanogos Hearing & Tinnitus
Timpanogos Hearing & Tinnitus has been serving
the residents of Utah County for almost 20 years.
Their providers have over 30 years of experience in
the field of hearing science, and provide the highest
quality of hearing and tinnitus health care for their
patients through consistently courteous care, top-
tier professional advice, and the best technology.
Timpanogos Hearing & Balance offers free services
to local senior centers and has created a program to
provide free hearing technology for those in need.

Auto Dealers - New
Young Subaru
Young Subaru joined the Young Automotive Group in
2011, which has been dedicated to delivering quality
and value in their community. One of Young Subaru’s
top-selling locations, the dealership offers new and
used cars along with finance, parts and repair services.
In 2024, Young Subaru was recognized as one of three
finalists in the National Auto Dealer Association’s
philanthropy pitch competition for their efforts with
Ogden’s homeless shelter, the Lantern House.

Auto Dealers - Used
Kentson Car Company
More than 20 years ago, Kentson Car Company
pioneered an internet dealership, and in 2008 they
innovated a non-commission sales team, offering
customers a totally different buying experience, even
cutting down the average car buying time from 2 hours
to 15 minutes. In the past 12 years, the company has
seen 8,045% growth and has been named Utah Dealer
of the Year by DealerRater 11 years in a row.

Automotive Services
LUXE Automotive
LUXE Automotive is Utah’s premier new-vehicle
protection facility, proudly celebrating 13 years
in business since its founding in 2012 by Cougar

Division Chair
Merchandising & Consumer Services
Kaesalesa Hamby

Animal Clinic
Canyons Veterinary Clinic
Dr. Heather Moreau started Canyons Veterinary
Clinic in 2019 to provide high quality medical care for
her patients and to create an atmosphere where she
could spend time connecting with and educating their
owners as well. Now Dr. Moreau has more than 4,000
patients and has hired two more doctors to meet the
demand for their services.

Animal Feed & Supplies
Mountain Wild
Mountain Wild has established itself as a leader in
premium pet nutrition, combining superior product
quality, industry innovation, and mission-driven
impact. Their treats provide an unparalleled protein
source, closely mirroring what dogs would naturally
consume in the wild. With over 99% of their DNA shared
with wolves, dogs thrive on wild protein, making these
treats an ideal option for all dogs, including those with
food allergies or sensitivities.

Animal Hospital
University Veterinary Hospital
The University Veterinary Hospital has been serving
the community for over 10 years. They offer more than
preventive care, providing urgent care for patients that
cannot get into an ER but need more immediate care.
They also offer laparoscopic spays to reduce procedure
time and recovery time and can offer chemotherapy
and laser therapy at their facility, working closely with
specialists in the area. Clients appreciate the option of
a specialist coming to the hospital to care for their pet.

Animal Training & Boarding
Rancho Luna Lobos
At Rancho Luna Logos, they have been running dogs
as a business for thirteen years, and Fernando has
been running dogs for twenty-nine years. They believe
that every dog should live life, and that living a good life
is a work of art. Their goal is to always inspire people,
young and old, to live their best life and to make a
difference in other’s lives as well.

Art Gallery/Broker
Havenlight
The Frame Works, doing business as Havenlight,
opened its doors in 1978 as a do-it-yourself frame
shop. Since then, Havenlight has grown into the largest
art company in the state of Utah with 5 retail stores,
wholesale framing, frame manufacturing, gold leafing,
and dozens of online properties that sell art around the
world. Its brands include Foundation Arts, Liz Lemon
Swindle Fine Arts, Cultural Hall, Haven Light, and
Repartee Galleries.

Elfervig. They specialize in Paint Protection Film
(PPF) installations, vinyl wraps, window tinting,
paint refinement, finishing treatments, detailing
services, and concierge offerings. Rooted in a deep
passion for the automotive industry, this enthusiasm
permeates their entire team. Their tagline, “Driven
by Detail,” reflects a commitment to exceeding client
expectations with exceptional products and services
from the moment they entrust LUXE Automotive with
their keys.

Boutique Gift Shop
Haven Haus Co.
Haven Haus is a little farmhouse store in Midway
that features a variety of home accessories, clothing,
jewelry, and self-care items, making it a one-stop
shop for those looking to refresh their living spaces
or find the perfect gift. With an eye for design and a
commitment to craftsmanship, Haven Haus aims to
enhance the beauty of everyday life.

Budget Funerals
Family Funeral Care
Affordable price is only one of the attractive features
at Family Funeral Care in Riverton, Utah. Their highly
trained staff is committed to providing every family
with professional and dignified service, regardless of
budget. They offer a full array of burial and cremation
options, and allow each family to tailor arrangements
to their specific needs.

Cemeteries
Memorial Mortuaries & Cemeteries
Memorial Mortuary & Cemetery is Utah’s largest
funeral services and Cemetery provider. Their roots
go back to 1965. With locations across the Wasatch
Front and the Wasatch Back, Memorial has been
serving families with passion and dignity for over
almost 60 years.

Clothier
LACE by louise
LACE by louise is owned and operated by Louise
Stucki. After first opening 28 years ago in Bountiful,
they now have a location in Riverton and their newest
location in St. George. LACE is a women’s lingerie
shop helping women by measuring and fitting them
correctly for bras, an idea that came to Louise when
helping her grandmother find a solution after having
had a mastectomy. As a company, LACE is changing
and evolving as the needs of their clientele change.

46 © 2025 BEST OF STATE

MERCHANDISING & CONSUMER SERVICES MEDAL WINNERS
and commercial spaces. Serving a large variety of
client needs, ranging from simple vanities to large scale
multi-unit apartment complexes. They have cultivated
a reputation for high quality work and exceptional
customer service. This is reflected in the company’s core
values, “We are one team that strives to do what we say
we will do, do the work that we have been entrusted
with, do the right thing if mistakes are made, so that we
can deliver an amazing experience to our customers.”

Dental Services
Stubbs Dental Implant Center
Stubbs Dental Implant Center’s mission is to transform
lives by restoring confidence, health, and happiness
through expert dental care. Since beginning in 2014
in Bountiful, they have remained steadfast in their
commitment to providing cutting-edge treatments
with compassion and integrity. As they have expanded
locations, they have never lost sight of our core
values: integrity, compassion, grateful mindset, and
teamwork. These principles guide every aspect of our
practice, from the way we treat our patients to the way
we support our team and engage with our community.

Dietary Supplements
USANA Health Sciences
USANA’s CellSentials is a combination of daily mineral,
vitamin, and antioxidant supplements that form an
advanced cellular nutrition system and that have been
meticulously balanced based on the latest nutritional
research. CellSentials has received the 5-star Platinum-
Plus rating in the NutriSearch Comparative Guide to
Nutritional Supplements, which compares and rates
more than 1,200 nutritional products in North America.

Durable Gifts
Olive & Cocoa
Olive & Cocoa has created, merchandised, and
marketed nearly 5,000 hardline, softline, edible, floral,
apparel, and keepsake gifts since 2009. The company is
renowned for their exclusive fresh floral arrangements
shipped in specialty containers, and they currently
offer 13 main gifting categories that go beyond the
holidays to cover life’s major milestones.

Eye Care
SouthWest Vision
In their drive for excellence, they relentlessly keep pace
with technological advancements using specialized
testing equipment to improve diagnostic accuracy and
subsequent medical treatment. On the optical side,
they constantly search for the finest frames available
coupled with proven, leading-edge lens technologies
that embody pristine optics and unmatched durability.

Flooring
Factory Flooring Design Center
Factory Flooring Design Center is a family-owned
business in the Tooele Valley in Lake Point, Utah,
that has been open for 20 years. Their team has

Construction – Residential
RGS Exteriors
RGS Exteriors is a family-owned Rain Gutter and
Siding company in its 35th year and fourth generation
of ownership. They install rain gutter, leaf protection,
ice melting systems, siding, stucco, stone, decking
and windows. They are the exclusive dealer in
Utah providing Gutter Topper, the nation’s top leaf
protection product on the market.

Consumable Gifts
Olive & Cocoa
Olive & Cocoa has created, merchandised, and
marketed nearly 5,000 hardline, softline, edible, floral,
apparel, and keepsake gifts since 2009. The company is
renowned for their exclusive fresh floral arrangements
shipped in specialty containers, and they currently
offer 13 main gifting categories that go beyond the
holidays to cover life’s major milestones.

Consumer Electronics
PC Laptops
Every new computer sold by PC Laptops comes with a free
lifetime service warranty; additionally, every new desktop
computer sold by PC Laptops also comes with a lifetime
parts and labor warranty. The company can offer such
unheard-of service and support terms to its customers
because it builds computers using only top-of-the-line
components and materials and because it provides the
very best professional training to its personnel.

Cosmetic/Medical Spa
Utah Facial Plastics
Utah Facial Plastics was founded in 2006 by Dr. Scott
Thompson as a specialized facial plastic surgery
practice dedicated to delivering expert care from
the neck up. Over the years, Utah Facial Plastics has
expanded to include a state-of-the-art MedSpa, hair
restoration center, and wellness division. They are
committed to being a positive force in the lives of their
patients by providing personalized, safe, and effective
treatments that enhance confidence and well-being.

Credit Unions
Goldenwest Credit Union
Goldenwest Credit Union stands on the cusp of its 88th
anniversary, thriving in its evolution. With a robust
network of 50 branches, it boasts a membership of
186,000 and manages assets worth $3 billion. Embracing
innovation amidst a rapidly advancing technological
landscape, Goldenwest continues to expand its product
portfolio, catering to diverse generational demographics
from traditionalists to Gen Z. Through strategic growth
initiatives, the Credit Union remains a beacon of
financial stability and community support.

Custom Cabinetry
Out of the Woods Cabinet & Countertop
Out of the Woods has been serving Utah since 2001 with
custom cabinetry and stone countertops in residential

over 125 years of combined experience in the floor
covering industry, currently has 10 employees and
25 subcontractor installers, and services 60 home
builders. They assist the do-it-yourself (DIY) group
all the way to the Craftsman Builders and Designers
in the industry, providing them with superior flooring
products and exceptional customer service.

Floral Design
Olive & Cocoa
Olive & Cocoa has created, merchandised, and
marketed nearly 5,000 hardline, softline, edible, floral,
apparel, and keepsake gifts since 2009. The company is
renowned for their exclusive fresh floral arrangements
shipped in specialty containers, and they currently
offer 13 main gifting categories that go beyond the
holidays to cover life’s major milestones.

Furniture
Osmond Designs
With locations in Lehi and Orem, Osmond Designs
is Utah’s exclusive retailer for premier brands such
as Drexel Heritage, Lexington, Bernhardt, Dovetail,
Stanley, Paul Robert, Norwalk, Stein World, King
Hickory, Klaussner, England, Sanfra, and Comfort
Design, just to name a few.

Gifts - Soft Goods
Minky Couture
Minky Couture was created in 2009 and designs
luxurious blankets that are hand-sewn and packaged
by professional, dedicated, and talented employees.
Approximately 10,000-12,000 blankets are created
each month with a touch of fashion and a ton of love.
Minky Couture has grown to 6 retail locations in Utah,
and their products have expanded to include robes,
bags, pillowcases, and more.

Hair/Beauty Salons
The Fellas Barber Shop
Founded in 2018, The Fellas Barbershop has quickly
grown into a prominent and beloved fixture in the
communities it serves, now boasting 11 locations. From
the very beginning, the barbershop has prioritized
creating an exceptional guest experience and fostering a
sense of community. The Fellas proudly offers discounts
to military personnel and first responders as a small
token of appreciation for their service. The barbershop
regularly hosts large-scale fundraisers, collaborates
with local businesses, and organizes events such as free
haircuts for Veterans on Veterans Day.

Health Care Services
Odyssey House of Utah
Since beginning in 1971, as a single residential
facility, Odyssey House has grown to become the
largest addiction treatment program in Utah, serving
as a pillar of support to the local and broader national
recovery community. Their commitment extends
across every facet of their operations, encompassing

© 2025 BEST OF STATE 47

MERCHANDISING & CONSUMER SERVICES MEDAL WINNERS
business practices, treatment programs, and well-
being of their dedicated staff. The organization’s
dedicated team of professionals, including medical
doctors, psychiatrists, therapists, and case managers,
work collaboratively to provide individualized care
that meets the unique needs of each person.

Health/Nutrition Products
Just Ingredients
Just Ingredients has quickly risen to rank among Utah’s
Top 10 Fastest-Growing companies. Committed to
creating products from carefully selected, real, and
organic ingredients, Just Ingredients offers a diverse
product line of over 200 nutrition and beauty products.

Heating & Air Conditioning
Blue Best LLC
Blue Best is an HVAC company owned and operated
by 3 local Utah women: a contractor and licensed
HVAC specialist, a marketing specialist, and a bio-
medical engineer. Blue Best is paving the way for
future opportunities in the heating and air industry for
all. They completed over $6 million worth of services in
their first full calendar year of operation, and are in the
top 5% of Lennox dealers in the western conference.

Home & Appliance Services
True Pros LLC
With over 20 years of experience in the construction
industry—specifically in retrofit, light commercial,
and new construction HVAC in Northern Utah—
owner, operator, and licensed contractor Katy Higgins
has dedicated her career to mastering every aspect
of the trade. True Pros is committed to redefining
industry standards by prioritizing transparency,
integrity, and customer service. Their mission extends
beyond quality installations and repairs; they aim to
create opportunities for others in the trades to build
meaningful careers. This commitment, paired with
technical expertise and a customer-first approach,
has propelled True Pros to become one of the fastest-
growing HVAC companies in the state.

Home Decor
Osmond Designs
In 2001, Osmond Designs was founded by Heather
Osmond, who was previously an award-winning real
estate agent who found her passion in helping her
homeowners prepare their homes to sell. Heather was
so successful that other agents hired her to prepare
their homes to sell too. Osmond Designs has locations
in Lehi and Orem, featuring a large selection of quality
furniture, home decor, and accessories.

Hospice/Home Health Care
Bristol Hospice Utah
Bristol Hospice started in Salt Lake City, UT in
May, 2007 and today is the 4th largest privately
owned hospice organization in the nation. Bristol
is represented in 21 states and in over 60 locations.

Bristol Hospice Utah serves patients along the
Wasatch Front from Santaquin to Brigham City. They
are known for their person-centered approach, born
from the foundational principles embodied in their
mission statement: “Bristol Hospice Utah is graciously
committed to our mission that all patients and families
entrusted to our care will be treated with the highest
level of compassion, respect and quality of care.”

Household Goods
Cariloha
Cariloha joins the style of the Caribbean with the
spirit of Aloha to provide the best in natural luxury.
By turning self-replenishing bamboo fields into ultra-
soft bamboo fabrics, Cariloha offers an exclusive
collection of bedding, apparel, active wear, bath
goods, and accessories made from soft, cool, clean,
and green bamboo.

Independent Senior Living
Legacy Retirement Residence
Legacy Retirement Residence takes great care
creating environments in which guests and residents
feel comfortable. Their goal is to provide a home-
like atmosphere and superior healthcare for their
Residents. Legacy offers quality communities,
excellent customer service, and the best of both
hospitality and senior living in everything they do.

Interior Design
Osmond Designs
In 2001, Osmond Designs was founded by Heather
Osmond, who was previously an award-winning real
estate agent who found her passion in helping her
homeowners prepare their homes to sell. Heather was
so successful that other agents hired her to prepare
their homes to sell too. Osmond Designs has locations
in Lehi and Orem, featuring a large selection of quality
furniture, home decor, and accessories.

Landscape Services & Supplies
Tuck Landscape
Established in 1981, Tuck Landscape is a full-service
landscape company with unsurpassed strengths in
design, landscape construction, project execution,
and the highest quality customer service. They have
been serving clients in the Salt Lake City region for
over 44 years and are one of the largest landscape
companies in Utah. While Tuck is known for large
high-end residential design build projects, they’ve
always been equally successful and proud at providing
the finest commercial landscapes. Tuck is known for its
reputable foundation of unwavering quality, integrity,
and customer service.

Laundry/Cleaning Services
Tide Cleaners (LooLoo LLC)
With 4 Utah locations, Tide Cleaners offers the ultimate
in dry cleaning convenience, quality, and customer
service with a 7-point inspection process, 24/7 kiosks,
drive-thru, free delivery, alterations, and proprietary
formulas to maintain or restore colors. South Jordan’s
grand opening sales broke the opening sales record for
Tide Cleaners nationwide.

Meal Delivery
Beehive Meals
Beehive Meals was created to ‘help take the busy
work out of family dinner’ allowing our customers to
skip the steps of planning, shopping, and preparing a
meal. All that’s left is to throw the meal in your slow
cooker, maybe add a side or two, and then enjoy with
your family!

Medical Equipment/Supplies
Alpine Home Medical
Now celebrating its 24th year, Alpine Home Medical
is a one-stop durable home medical equipment
company and service provider, offering products like
respiratory equipment, rehabilitation equipment, and
bathroom safety products. Alpine holds education
and certification at a high standard, and the company
consistently earns high scores in customer satisfaction.

gifts
unique

48 © 2025 BEST OF STATE

MERCHANDISING & CONSUMER SERVICES MEDAL WINNERS
Medical Services
Odyssey House - Martindale Clinic
The Odyssey House Martindale Clinic (MC) staff
provides routine, preventive, and urgent care
services for the community, and they specialize in
serving people struggling with addiction and mental
health issues. The MC works with Odyssey’s wrap-
around services including substance use treatment,
mental health services, employment training, life
skills, and housing.

Men’s Apparel
Doused
Doused has been Salt Lakes first sneaker consignment
and resell store for 13 years. They specialize in finding
rare and hard to find sneakers as well as travel the
county to sneaker events and introducing new clothing
brands and ideas to the Salt Lake valley. Doused
strives to introduce new brands, new ideas and new
fashion for men and will push themselves to keep this
community moving forward.

Mental Health Services
Odyssey House of Utah
Since beginning in 1971, as a single residential facility,
Odyssey House has grown to become the largest
addiction treatment program in Utah, serving as a pillar
of support to the local and broader national recovery
community. Their commitment extends across every
facet of their operations, encompassing business
practices, treatment programs, and well-being of their
dedicated staff. The organization’s dedicated team of
professionals, including medical doctors, psychiatrists,
therapists, and case managers, work collaboratively
to provide individualized care that meets the unique
needs of each person.

Misc. Merchandising/Services
Creative Wigs and Hair Replacement
Celebrating 60 years, Creative Wigs is a wig and
hairpiece retail store and all-inclusive salon dedicated
to finding solutions to assist people in feeling normal
and natural in times of hair loss. They pride themselves
in giving personal attention to every guest. They want to
assist people in moving from possible tears to renewed
hope all while having fun. They have hundreds of
styles and colors to choose from. Creative Wigs & Hair
Replacement provides wig services at four locations:
Salt Lake City, South Jordan, Orem, and St. George.

Mortuary Services
Memorial Mortuaries & Cemeteries
Memorial’s roots go back 165 years to the historic
Memorial Holladay Cemetery, Utah’s second-oldest
cemetery. Since then, Memorial has been providing
exceptional funeral and cemetery services to Utah
families. Today, Memorial operates 8 funeral homes,
5 cemeteries, and a crematory, serving thousands of
families annually.

Nail Salon
Lotus Nail Spa
Lotus Nail Spa was founded with the vision of redefining
the nail salon experience by combining luxury, hygiene,
and professional excellence. Since opening, the salon has
built a reputation for high-quality services, exceptional
client care, and a commitment to industry innovation.
Beyond offering top-tier nail care, Lotus Nail Spa has
prioritized education and career development, creating
opportunities for aspiring nail technicians through its
unique apprenticeship and mentorship programs.

Ophthalmology
Hoopes Vision
Hoopes Vision, established in 2000 by Dr. Phillip C.
Hoopes Sr., has provided unparalleled eye care to
Utah residents for 20 years. Participating in innovative
vision correction procedures such as LASIK, corneal
transplants, KAMRA, cataract surgery, ReLEx SMILE,
and lens implants.

Optical Care
SouthWest Vision
Located in St. George, SouthWest Vision relentlessly
keeps pace with technology advancements using
specialized testing equipment to improve diagnostic
accuracy and subsequent medical treatment. On
the optical side, they constantly search for the finest
frames available coupled with proven, leading-edge
lens technologies that embody pristine optics and
unmatched durability.

Orthodontics
Warren Orthodontics
Warren Orthodontics is owned and operated by Dr.
Casey Warren who believes that every smile has a
story. He loves working with kids and is inspired by the
happiness and increased confidence he sees in them
during their treatment process. Dr. Warren is devoted
to helping patients achieve a healthy and aligned
smile through delivering exceptional quality service.

Personal Care Products/Cosmetics
USANA Health Sciences
Using targeted cosmetic nutrient combinations,
the USANA Celavive skincare system awakens cells’
natural renewing ability to activate youth-preserving
beauty functions. Celavive features 10 unique
products, all paraben-free, from makeup remover and
SPF 30 lotion to toner and natural botanical gel.

Photo & Imaging Services
Snap Pop Party
Miranda Thompson and her husband, Tyler, had been
running a successful photo booth rental business for
a few years when Covid-19 hit and, all at once, shut
down the events industry altogether. Miranda realized
that even though we were no longer allowed to gather,
people were no less excited to celebrate the milestones

and accomplishments of the people they loved, and
she started brainstorming other ways to bring people
together, safely from a distance. A few months into the
pandemic, Snap Pop Party was born.

Plumbing
Blue Best LLC
Blue Best LLC Heating Air Plumbing & Generators is a
home services company located in Bountiful, Utah, that
began providing HVAC services to the Wasatch front
in early 2021 and is owned and operated by three local
women—Natalie Curry-Sloot, Annie Fonnesbeck and
Erin Smith. Blue Best came to life because of consumer
demand for a trustworthy company that clients would
be willing to recommend. The customer’s experience
has been and always will be their top priority. Blue Best
is proud to say that over just the last four years, they have
received over 2,150 5-star reviews.

Preparedness Foods & Supplies
Nitro-Pak Preparedness Center
Nitro-Pak offers one-stop shopping for just about
anything you can think of for surviving an emergency
or disaster, including freeze-dried instant foods,
complete family food reserve units, water filters, solar
products, MREs (meals-ready-to-eat), emergency
light and heat products, and more. Nitro-Pak offers the
largest selection of 30-year shelf life, gourmet, freeze-
dried, precooked meals in the country.

Remodeling/Home Improvement
RGS Exteriors
At RGS Exteriors, they make big promises, but
they’re the contractor that not only follows through
on those promises—they EXCEED every one of your
expectations. They never skimp on details, even
down to the type of nails they use, and they always do
just a little bit extra, always aiming to provide better
service than the customer expects.

Residential Building Subcontractor
RGS Exteriors
At RGS Exteriors, they make big promises, but
they’re the contractor that not only follows through
on those promises—they EXCEED every one of your
expectations. They never skimp on details, even
down to the type of nails they use, and they always do
just a little bit extra, always aiming to provide better
service than the customer expects.

Residential Home Design
Walker Home Design
Walker Home Design is an award-winning
architectural home design company that specializes
in custom and stock house plans, home remodels and
additions, playhouses, and themed rooms. Walker
Home Design has earned a reputation for innovation,
creativity, efficient construction, and maximizing the
use of space.

49© 2025 BEST OF STATE

Residential Maintenance & Repair
Tuck Maintenance
Tuck Maintenance is a full-service landscape
maintenance company with unsurpassed strengths
in residential estate maintenance, commercial
maintenance, irrigation, landscape design,
property enhancements, and snow removal. Tuck
Maintenance is known for providing the finest
residential estate maintenance and comprehensive
commercial maintenance services in Utah.

Senior Living Community
Legacy Retirement Communities
Legacy Retirement Communities (LRC) is owned
and managed by Western States Lodging and
Management (WSLM), with additional capital
partners, based in South Jordan, UT. Established in
1994, WSLM commemorates their 30th anniversary.
With a commitment to the people of Utah, and a clear
understanding of what it means to take care of the
senior population, they focus on exceptional service,
superior healthcare and a commitment to creating
home-like environments.

Skilled Nursing Facilities
Mission Health Services
Mission Health Services (MHS) is a non-profit,
long-term healthcare services provider with skilled
nursing facilities across the state. Each MHS facility
provides a full array of services, including skilled
nursing services, therapy services, meaningful
activities, comprehensive social services support,
and extraordinary dining services.

Structural Repair & Restoration
LUXE Automotive
Our team is dedicated to the mission, vision and values
of the brand and carries those values through to see the
irrefutable positive results across a variety of projects.
As a result, Cougar Elfervig and other members of our
management team continue to be hand-selected for their
expertise to recondition various national monuments.

Vehicle Collision Repair
Dave’s Body Shop
Established in 1942, Dave’s Body Shop swiftly upgraded
to a state-of-the-art facility, driven by a commitment
to quality repairs. Dave’s dedication led to landmark
achievements, including becoming the first Audi
Authorized Collision Center in Utah, followed by
earning the distinction of being the inaugural Tesla
Authorized Collision Center in 2013. Dave’s prioritizes
excellence and continues its tradition of progress while
upholding quality repairs.

Vehicle Customization
LUXE Automotive
Our team is dedicated to the mission, vision and
values of the brand and carries those values through
to see the irrefutable positive results across a variety
of projects. As a result, Cougar Elfervig and other
members of our management team continue to
be hand-selected for their expertise to recondition
various national monuments.

Vehicle Maintenance Cosmetic
LUXE Automotive
Our team is dedicated to the mission, vision and
values of the brand and carries those values through
to see the irrefutable positive results across a variety

of projects. As a result, Cougar Elfervig and other
members of our management team continue to
be hand-selected for their expertise to recondition
various national monuments.

Vehicle Maintenance Mechanical
Master AutoTech
Founded in 1963, Master AutoTech has grown from
a single shop to the largest local auto repair and
maintenance franchise in Utah, with a total of 22
locations statewide, four locations in Idaho and one in
Oregon. Their mission has always been rooted in serving
the community and providing exceptional service to
their customers. They believe that maintaining vehicles
isn’t just about fixing cars; it’s about preserving people’s
access to freedom and mobility.

Women’s Apparel
JessaKae
JessaKae is a Bluffdale based dress brand founded in
2016 by Jessa and Jordan Maddocks. They are known
for their size inclusivity, offering designer dresses
in sizes ranging from XXS to 6X. Their high-quality
materials and unique designs have set them apart in
the industry.

Youth Treatment Center
Odyssey House of Utah
For the past 49 years, Odyssey House has provided
thousands of Utah teens and their families with life-
changing treatment services for substance use disorder
and mental health. Odyssey House’s success is rooted
in an agency-wide commitment to rehabilitating the
whole person, not just their addiction, which includes
vocational training, education, life skills, behavioral
interventions, and more.

MERCHANDISING & CONSUMER SERVICES MEDAL WINNERS

The Annual Best of State Golf Tournament
at Soldier Hollow’s Gold Course.
Wednesday, July 16, 2025
Come spend a day of golf on Soldier Hollow’s
Gold Course with Best of State friends,
winners, and sponsors. Enjoy delicious food,
great prizes, post-tournament reception, and
killer golf.

Contact Mark Layton:
mark@bestofstate.org or (801) 361-7300
for more info on how to get involved.

Best of State
Golf Tournament
at Soldier Hollow

Best of State
Golf Tournament
at Soldier Hollow

50 © 2025 BEST OF STATE

Candy/Confectionary
V Chocolates
V Chocolates was founded in 2004 to create and
distribute the finest quality English-styled toffee
available anywhere. Other products have been added
since then, including sumptuous caramels, truffles,
and chocolate-dipped fruit. Unlike most companies
in the industry, V Chocolates never freezes any of
its products. They focus on the finest and freshest
ingredients, cooked in small batches and hand
decorated and packed.

Components/Fabricating
Tycon Systems Inc.
Tycon Systems Inc., founded in 2008, designs and
manufactures remote power system and outdoor
units for integrated power conversion devices.
Tycon Systems has grown from a residential garage
in Draper, Utah to a 23,000 square-foot facility in
Bluffdale, Utah with a Sales Development Office in
St. George, Utah, and a second Engineering Office in
Yakima, Washington. They currently export products
to more than 46 countries.

Consumer Electronics
PC Laptops
Every new computer sold by PC Laptops comes
with a free lifetime service warranty; additionally,
every new desktop computer sold by PC Laptops
also comes with a lifetime parts and labor warranty.
The company can offer such unheard-of service and
support terms to its customers because it builds
computers using only top-of-the-line components
and materials and because it provides the very best
professional training to its personnel.

Culinary Chocolate
Aggie Chocolate Factory
The Aggie Chocolate Factory (ACF) is the only bean-
to-bar facility operated by a university anywhere in
the world. This unique facility is a direct result of
Utah State University (USU) providing teaching,
research, and outreach opportunities to students,
faculty, the community, and chocolate producers. It
manufactures a selection of unique bean-to-
bar products including Aggie Hot Chocolate,
traditional Mesoamerican drinking chocolate,
cocoa nib-based meat seasoning, and much more.
The factory sources sustainably produced, fair
trade beans from countries worldwide to produce
products with differing flavor profiles depending
on their origins.

PRODUCTION & MANUFACTURING MEDAL WINNERS
Artisan Cheese
Heber Valley Artisan Cheese
Heber Valley Artisan Cheese is owned and operated
by the Kohler family in the heart of Heber Valley.
Their cheese is made with milk from their own cows
on their own land. Milk from the pasture arrives at the
creamery in mere minutes, ensuring the freshest and
best-tasting products. Heber Valley regularly wins
awards for many of their cheeses, including Mustard
Herb Cheddar, Fuego Rojo Cheddar, Honey Lavender
Cheddar, and Wasatch Back Jack.

Artisan Ice Cream
Hidden Oak Gourmet Creamery
Since launching in 2022, Hidden Oak has experienced
rapid growth and widespread acclaim, redefining
ice cream in Utah and setting a new standard for
quality, innovation, and craftsmanship. Founded on
a deep passion for culinary excellence, their French-
style, super-premium ice cream is meticulously
crafted from scratch, using only the finest natural
ingredients—free from artificial flavors and colors.
Each batch is a testament to our dedication, carefully
tested for superior texture, creaminess, and unique
flavor complexity.

Baked Goods
Kariann Rugg - Cake Dame
Kariann Rugg began her baking journey in high
school through a work release program, gaining
hands-on experience in a bakery in Bountiful. During
that time, she developed essential skills in baking,
decorating, and working in a fast-paced kitchen
environment. That early experience sparked her
passion for the craft and gave her a strong foundation
for the industry. Kariann has owned Cake Dame for
17 years and has passed her passion for baking on
to her children, who are breaking into the culinary
world themselves. The kids in her neighborhood
often call her the “Cake Lady.”

Beverage
SodaBeers
Once delivered in wooden barrels by horse-drawn
wagons in Germany, keg soda was made with crisp
Sicilian apples. Brought to Utah as Apple Beer in
1964, the drink has been packaged and sold along the
Wasatch Front ever since. Apple Beer transitioned its
brand name to SodaBeers in 2019, and its gourmet
soda lineup now includes Apple Beer, sugar-free
Apple Beer Five, Root Beer, Ginger Beer, Cherry Beer,
and Butterscotch Beer.

Dairy Products
Heber Valley Artisan Cheese
Heber Valley Artisan Cheese produces farmstead
artisan cheeses using fresh milk from 150 Holstein-
Friesian cows, which graze on grass just behind the
creamery on the Kohler family’s 125-acre dairy farm.
Their 1,800-square-foot refrigerator holds 65,000
pounds of cheese, some aging for 18 months to 6
years to achieve the right amount of sharpness.

Electrical/Power Products
Tycon Systems Inc.
Since its founding in 2008, Tycon Systems has
pushed the envelope in microelectronics design and
innovation and has pioneered the field of remote
power systems for use in security and surveillance in
the commercial and semi-industrial arenas. Tycon’s
off-grid remote power growth has now expanded
into the agriculture, construction, and oil/gas/
mining industries.

Electro/Mechanical
Tycon Systems Inc.
Since its founding in 2008, Tycon Systems has
pushed the envelope in microelectronics design and
innovation and has pioneered the field of remote
power systems for use in security and surveillance in
the commercial and semi-industrial arenas. Tycon’s
off-grid remote power growth has now expanded
into the agriculture, construction, and oil/gas/
mining industries.

Fabrication
Western Timber Frame
Western Timber Frame™ is the industry leader in
designing and manufacturing premium timber
pergolas, pavilions, and shade structures. With
award-winning designs, multiple patents and
trade dress protections, and a commitment to old-
world craftsmanship, they have redefined what it
means to build high-quality, long-lasting outdoor
living spaces. Their Dovetail Difference™ joinery
system makes their structures 500% stronger than
traditional timber connections, setting a new
standard in durability and craftsmanship.

Fencing
The Fence Company
The Fence Company is a leader in Utah’s fencing
industry, setting a new standard for durability,
efficiency, and customer service. Founded to provide
homeowners and businesses with high-quality

Division Chair
Production & Manufacturing
Tonia Ballard

51© 2025 BEST OF STATE

PRODUCTION & MANUFACTURING MEDAL WINNERS
fencing solutions, The Fence Company has rapidly
grown into a trusted name by focusing on reliability,
innovation, and environmental responsibility. A key
differentiator is their modern No-Dig installation
method, which eliminates the need for concrete
footings and minimizes ground disturbance.

Food Manufacturing/Processing
Beehive Meals
Beehive Meals was created to ‘help take the busy
work out of family dinner’ allowing their customers to
skip the steps of planning, shopping, and preparing a
meal. All that’s left is to throw the meal into your slow
cooker, maybe add a side or two, and then enjoy with
your family!

Hardware
Monnit Corp.
Monnit engineers and manufactures remote
monitoring solutions for commercial and industrial
markets from enterprises to small and medium
businesses. Monnit’s range of 80+ IoT sensors
remotely monitor temperature, light, humidity, water,
vibration, and more. Monnit products are made in
Utah and installed at organizations worldwide. You

can analyze data using iMonnit cloud software and
get alerts via email, text, or call when our sensors
detect a change you need to know.

Ice Cream
Aggie Ice Cream
The Aggie Creamery has been making famous Aggie
ice cream “from the cow to the cone since 1888!”
They offer 25 ice cream flavors, ranging from the
fan-favorite Aggie Blue Mint to the infamous Lemon
Custard and several holiday flavors. The creamery
has now started shipping their products nationwide,
keeping Aggie fans happy all over the country.

Large Format Printing
SugarHouse Print Solutions
For over eight decades, SugarHouse Industries
has thrived on its commitment to customization,
top-notch product quality, and unmatched
customer service. Since its inception in 1941
by Walter O. Peterson, the company initially
specialized in awnings and Sherwin Williams
paint. Over the years, SugarHouse’s product
range has expanded significantly to include
various awning types, boat covers and enclosures,

custom canvas covers, upholstery, Snow Shield
snow removal tarps, and more.

Meat Products
Heber Valley Meat
Heber Valley Meat worked throughout the COVID-19
pandemic to open a new business that would benefit
the community. In addition to offering custom
cuts of beef, pork, and lamb; mobile slaughter is
available to local ranchers. They have over 10 years
of experience in meat cutting and are excited to bring
their expertise to the Heber Valley.

Mining/Quarrying
Staker Parson Materials
& Construction
For more than 60 years, Staker Parson has supplied
quality sand, rock, landscape products, ready-mixed
concrete, asphalt, paving, and construction for a
wide variety of contractors, businesses, government
agencies, municipalities, and homeowners. From the
roads you drive on to the parks you play in, Staker
Parson delivers quality products and projects in a
safe, timely, and efficient manner.

Others build projects. We create communities.

icocompanies.com | ivoryapartmenthomes.com
THE ICO COMPANIES
Step inside any of our 25 locations across the Wastach Front and
experience for yourself why we've been Utah's #1 Multifamily
Development, Construction, and Management firm ™ since 2011.

52 © 2025 BEST OF STATE

Misc. Manufacturing Industries
Fiber Nation Laser & Fabrication
Fiber Nation Laser and Fabrication was established to
fill the need for a high-end metal fabricating facility
in Utah, specializing in art, welding, and custom
metalworks of all shapes and sizes. The company
employs state-of-the-art metal forming processes,
ensuring superior quality, production speed, and
precision. With a fully computerized operation,
Fiber Nation guarantees maximum accuracy and
repeatability, setting itself apart from competitors. The
company’s dedication to craftsmanship and customer
satisfaction has led to its rapid growth and recognition
as a premier metal fabrication business in Utah.

Outdoor/Recreational Equipment
Western Timber Frame
Western Timber Frame provides outdoor living
spaces and shade structures, and they specialize in
pergolas, pavilions, gazebos, breezeways, arbors,
trellises, decks, bridges, awnings, and more. Their
Woodland Pavilion Series has been engineered to use
20-30% less timber while still retaining the necessary
snow-load and wind strength needed for Utah.

Packaging
Wasatch Container
Established in 1995, Wasatch Container has
established itself as Utah’s leading provider of
customized packaging solutions, encompassing
corrugated/cardboard shipping boxes & retail
displays, foam, and wooden crates. With a diverse
portfolio spanning industrial, e-commerce, retail,
and UN-certified packaging, among others, we
cater to a wide range of industries, including MLMs,
ecommerce, military, medical device, food and
beverage, health and beauty, and more.

Promotional Products
SymbolArts
Founded in 1986 by Mike Leatham, SymbolArts is
an insignia and recognition company with products
such as badges, coins, medals, pins, awards,
apparel, patches, and more. SymbolArts now counts
organizations like Sony, Harley-Davidson, Walmart,
Disney, Marriott, Verizon, Microsoft, the United
States Marine Corps, and even the White House
among their satisfied clientele.

Protein/Health Food
Just Ingredients
Just Ingredients, a health and wellness company
founded by Karalynne Call, has quickly risen
to rank among Utah’s Top 10 Fastest-Growing
companies. Committed to creating products from
carefully selected, real, and organic ingredients,
Just Ingredients offers a diverse product line of over

200 nutrition and beauty products. Karalynne’s
significant influence on social media, along with her
Top 20 Podcast, inspires and educates individuals to
make informed choices for a healthier, happier life.

Signage/Display
Allotech, Inc.
Allotech is a custom sign fabricator specializing in
metal fabrication, fine metal finishing, and custom
logo and corporate identification. Their sales success
has come by word of mouth and repeat clientele. They
provide all aspects of signage design, production,
and installation, and they tailor each project to fit a
specific budget, providing the customer with the best
possible product to suit their needs.

Specialty Cheeses
Aggie Creamery
The Aggie Creamery is a processing facility,
teaching center, and store, all wrapped in one
package that produces award-winning cheese
and ice cream. Using milk sourced by Utah State
University’s Caine Dairy, each product is processed
and packaged in the Nutrition, Dietetics, and Food
Sciences building by students and staff. In 2020,
Aggie Creamery’s Aggiano and Old Juniper cheeses
achieved gold status at the Utah Cheese Awards.

Stone Products
Bedrock Quartz
Bedrock Quartz has set the standard for excellence
in the countertop industry through precision
craftsmanship, superior materials, and a customer-
first approach. With over two decades of experience,
they offer exclusive material selections, personalized
design services, and industry-best warranty and
maintenance packages, ensuring every project meets
the highest standards of quality and durability.
Bedrock Quartz’s commitment to innovation allows
them to provide some of the fastest turnaround times
in the industry, while our non-commissioned sales
team ensures a pressure-free buying experience.

Tailoring
Sue’s Alteration
Sue’s Alteration provides premium alteration and
tailoring service and has been operating within Salt
Lake City since 2013, but Sue has been mastering her
craft since 1991. She doesn’t cut corners and goes
the extra mile to provide the best service to each of
her customers.

Textile Products
Del Sol
Beginning in 1994 with a vendor’s cart in a Utah mall,
Del Sol combined science and sunshine to create the
world’s first T-shirt that changes color in sunlight.

Since then, Del Sol has grown to become the world’s
largest retailer of merchandise that changes color in
the sun. There are more than 65 store locations and
1,000 wholesale accounts in 22 countries, selling
more than 10,000 different color-changing products.

Transportation Equipment
Armormax
Founded in 1994, Armormax is internationally
recognized as the premier armored passenger
vehicle designer and manufacturer. Armormax
continues to grow with a variety of different projects,
in addition to the traditional armored passenger
vehicles. Examples include the recent design
and manufacturing of armored helicopters (Anti-
poaching forces) for South Africa, armored trains (36
units) for Mozambique and armored numerous 35
Vermeer commercial trenchers for the Middle East
(used in the rebuilding efforts in war torn regions).

Welding & Fabrication
Titan Architectural Products
Titan Architectural Products is a turnkey supply
and installation company of Lifetime Guaranteed
interior stairs and railings, exterior wrought iron and
steel stairs and balustrades, finish carpentry, and
architectural embellishments. Their craftsmen are in-
house trained and employed. They use only the finest
materials available on the market and manufacture
stairs and balustrades using all available ethically
sourced hardwoods, wrought iron, steel, stainless
steel, glass and more.

Wholesale Goods
Western Timber Frame
Western Timber Frame provides outdoor living
spaces and shade structures, and they specialize in
pergolas, pavilions, gazebos, breezeways, arbors,
trellises, decks, bridges, awnings, and more. Their
Woodland Pavilion Series has been engineered to use
20-30% less timber while still retaining the necessary
snow-load and wind strength needed for Utah.

Wood Products
Western Timber Frame
Western Timber Frame provides outdoor living
spaces and shade structures, and they specialize in
pergolas, pavilions, gazebos, breezeways, arbors,
trellises, decks, bridges, awnings, and more. Their
Woodland Pavilion Series has been engineered to use
20-30% less timber while still retaining the necessary
snow-load and wind strength needed for Utah.

PRODUCTION & MANUFACTURING MEDAL WINNERS

GUIDING
YOU
FORWARD

Insured by NCUA
Membership required—based on eligibility.

Continue your journey
to financial success by
teaming up with the
Best of State Credit
Union for 2025.

Visit your local branch
or macu.com.

54 © 2025 BEST OF STATE

Interactive/Multimedia
Dixon Security Cameras
For over fifteen years, Dixon Security has been
a trusted provider of security solutions across
Utah, with its brick-and-mortar spy shop in South
Salt Lake serving as the only physical location of
its kind in the state. Specializing in commercial
security camera installations, Dixon Security has
provided protection for The Utah Food Bank,
The Living Planet Aquarium, Stor-N-Lock, Pride
Transportation, Park City Mountain, Vail Resorts,
and hundreds of other businesses.

Laboratory Equipment and Supplies
Monnit Corp.
Monnit engineers and manufactures remote
monitoring solutions for commercial and industrial
markets from enterprises to small and medium
businesses. Monnit’s range of 80+ IoT sensors
remotely monitor temperature, light, humidity, water,
vibration, and more. Monnit products are made in
Utah and installed at organizations worldwide. You
can analyze data using iMonnit cloud software and
get alerts via email, text, or call when our sensors
detect a change you need to know.

Landscape Engineering
Tuck Landscape
Tuck Landscape is a full-service landscape company
with unsurpassed strengths in design and landscape
construction. Tuck has been serving clients in the Salt
Lake City region for over 43 years and is one of the
largest landscape companies in Utah. Although Tuck
is known for large high-end residential design build
projects, it is also very successful at providing the
finest commercial landscapes.

Mechanical Engineering
Spectrum Engineers, Inc.
Spectrum provides client-centered electrical,
mechanical, plumbing, acoustical, and fire protection
engineering in addition to technology, lighting, and
theatre design services throughout the U.S. One of
their most notable and complex projects of 2020 was
the award-winning Wavetronix South Manufacturing
Building in Springville, which included an office
and manufacturing building, a corporate center, a
wellness center, and a training center, all serving
more than 5,000 employees.

SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY MEDAL WINNERS
Computer Related Services
PC Laptops
It is PC Laptops dedication to selling the best
computers that are backed-up by unsurpassed
warranties and service programs, that keep
customers coming back again and again. Such an
approach has not gone unrecognized, either, as PC
Laptops has garnered numerous local, national and
industry awards and accolades, including media
reviews recognizing PC Laptops brand desktop and
laptop computers for their superior qualities.

Electrical Engineering
Spectrum Engineers, Inc.
Spectrum provides client-centered electrical,
mechanical, acoustical, and fire protection
engineering in addition to technology, lighting,
and theater design services. In both design
and construction, Spectrum reduces costs and
improves results by solving system deficiencies
before corrections become financially prohibitive.
Spectrum’s integrated multidisciplinary professional
teams have earned commendations from numerous
national engineering and construction publications.

Environmental Science
Tuck Landscape
Tuck Landscape is a full-service landscape company
with unsurpassed strengths in design and landscape
construction. Tuck has been serving clients in the Salt
Lake City region for over 43 years and is one of the
largest landscape companies in Utah. Although Tuck
is known for large high-end residential design build
projects, it is also very successful at providing the
finest commercial landscapes.

Hardware/Firmware Development
Monnit Corp.
Monnit engineers and manufactures remote
monitoring solutions for commercial and industrial
markets from enterprises to small and medium
businesses. Monnit’s range of 80+ IoT sensors
remotely monitor temperature, light, humidity, water,
vibration, and more. Monnit products are made in
Utah and installed at organizations worldwide. You
can analyze data using iMonnit cloud software and
get alerts via email, text, or call when our sensors
detect a change you need to know.

Analytical Laboratory
Utah Valley University/UVU SMARTLab
Open for 6 years now, the UVU Neuromarketing
SMARTLab has evolved into one of the most
advanced neuromarketing labs in the country. The
lab utilizes eye tracking, electroencephalography
(EEG), galvanic skin response (GSR) devices, facial
coding analysis, and post-test interviews to discover
customers’ responses to marketing stimuli.

Applied Science/Technology
Tycon Systems Inc.
Tycon Systems Inc., founded in 2008, designs and
manufactures remote power systems, outdoor
UPSPRO® and RemotePro® units for integrated
power conversion devices. Scott M. Parsons,
President of Tycon Systems Inc., brings 45 years of
strong inventive experience in manufacturing and
electrical engineering. Much of his time and sleeping
hours have been spent doing design, research &
development, and product & component testing.
Bruce Sutton has been the CEO of Tycon® for the past
12 years. Together with Scott, they lead the company’s
strategic direction, growth, and expansion.

Computer and
Software Providers (VARS)
PC Laptops
It is PC Laptops dedication to selling the best
computers that are backed-up by unsurpassed
warranties and service programs, that keep
customers coming back again and again. Such an
approach has not gone unrecognized, either, as PC
Laptops has garnered numerous local, national and
industry awards and accolades, including media
reviews recognizing PC Laptops brand desktop and
laptop computers for their superior qualities.

Computer Network Solutions
Nexus IT
Nexus IT, established in 1998, is a trailblazer in
managed IT services, cybersecurity, and technology
solutions, serving businesses across Utah and
beyond. For over 25 years, Nexus IT has been at the
forefront of the industry, delivering tailored, proactive
solutions that empower organizations to thrive in
an ever-changing digital landscape. Renowned for
its innovation and reliability, Nexus IT has built a
reputation as a trusted partner, helping businesses
achieve seamless operations, enhanced security, and
sustainable growth.

Division Chair
Science & Technology
Richard Dick

55© 2025 BEST OF STATE

Medical Innovation
SilverCeuticals
SilverCeuticals is the pioneering creator and
distributor of a wide range of industry-unique health,
wound treatment, skin care, and dental care products
that combine best-in-class science and Curasol
Technology™, a technology platform reinforced by the
world’s purest, highest-quality natural ingredients.
This innovative serum combines the company’s
proprietary component ingredients—Curasol nano-
silver; SilverCeuticals’ re-engineered hyaluronic acid
(HA) blend; and nano-marine collagen peptides—to
produce the world’s most powerful, safe and effective
serum for healing and restoring facial skin.

Medical Processes
Lumea
Lumea is all about reinventing the medical
process for cancer diagnosis and innovation is at
the core of their success. Their digital pathology
platform demonstrates creativity by integrating
ancillary test ordering and result management.
Additionally, Lumea’s suite of patented
preanalytical tools addresses long-standing
inefficiencies in prostate cancer diagnostics,
redefining tissue sample management, reducing
formaldehyde exposure for medical personnel
and enhancing diagnostic accuracy.

Mobility Devices
Compassion Mobility
Compassion Mobility strives to always put the
customer first, and focuses on researching products
that will give their customers the ability to get out
into the community and help improve their quality of
life. They make a fine line of mobility scooters, power
chairs, lift chairs, wheelchair trailers and mobile
walkers. Their customers are their main focus and
can’t say enough good things about them.

Pest Control Technology
Aptive Environmental
Aptive Environmental provides pest control services
to customers in 34 states, and is the 6th largest pest
control company in the US. They are a proud member
of the EPA’s Pesticide Environmental Stewardship
Program and have partnered with the United Nations
Foundation’s “Nothing But Nets” to help stop the
spread of malaria transmitted by mosquito bites.

Research and Development
USANA Health Sciences
Founded in 1992 by microbiologist and immunologist
Dr. Myron Wentz, USANA Health Sciences is a
science-based company that develops scientifically
advanced nutritional, personal-care, and weight-

SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY MEDAL WINNERS
management products. The name “USANA” derives
from Greek and Latin and means “true health.”
USANA’s world-class products are marketed and
sold through independent USANA distributors and
provide a stable foundation for a rewarding home-
based business. USANA’s products and home-based
business are helping to improve the lives of its
independent distributors and their customers in 24
international markets.

Smart Homes & Buildings
Davis School District - Utility Services
Davis School District has implemented technology
to maximize their energy efficiency, improving
educational infrastructure and ensuring that resources
are utilized effectively. The district has embraced
cutting-edge technologies, including geothermal
fields, ground-source heat pumps, and automation
systems to enhance energy efficiency. They program
the system controls to maximize efficiency, ensuring
that systems turn off when not needed and turn on at
appropriate times. This guarantees that when students
arrive at school, their environment provides the best
opportunity for learning.

Software Development/Publishers
FM Flow
Zach Tanner started building FM Flow seven
years ago as a solution platform for his painting
business. Three-and-a-half years ago, he hired on
Bailey Rayner who helped build his franchising
company while working on the development of the
FM Flow software, which was used by the Painter
Bros franchising organization. Painter Bros is the
foundation of the FM Flow platform. Zach has built
both organizations to service the entire United
States in a short amount of time. Even though his
background is not in technology, he saw the gaps in
the service industry around tech and efficiency. His
ability to pinpoint problems and create solutions that
are unheard of, have played as the backbone to his
success in business.

Solar Technology
Tycon Systems Inc.
Since its founding in 2008, Tycon Systems has
pushed the envelope in microelectronics design and
innovation and has pioneered the field of remote
power systems for use in security and surveillance in
the commercial and semi-industrial arenas. Tycon’s
off-grid remote power growth has now expanded into
the agriculture, construction, and oil/gas/mining/
solar industries.

Structural Engineering
BHB Structural
BHB Structural, established in 200, has flourished
from a modest team of three to a dynamic workforce
of over 65 skilled professionals over the span of 22
years. Their collective expertise boasts more than 500
years of structural engineering experience dedicated
to serving their clientele. Rooted in their core values
of creativity, responsiveness, and coordination, the
BHB Structural team is committed to delivering
exceptional solutions tailored to our clients’ needs.

Telecommunications
InfoWest
InfoWest is a leading provider of internet services
in Utah. With nearly three decades of experience,
they have consistently demonstrated excellence and
achievement in their field. They are the original ISP
for Southern Utah, and now service communities
throughout the state–from the southern border at St.
George to as far north as Providence.

User Experience/Interface Design
State of Utah/
Division of Technology Services
Under the direction of the State of Utah Department
of Government Operations, Division of Technology
Services (DTS), Utah.gov is the state’s official
government website for delivering information and
services. Since 1999, it has delivered a broad portfolio
of services that save time and money and make
information and services easily accessible. From
its inception, the state has continuously sought
to deliver better services through Utah.gov and
become a global benchmark for delivering a best-
in-class digital government experience to residents
and businesses.

Web Design
Weapon Agency
A full-service branding and creative agency, Weapon
Agency is full of an elite squad of alpha geeks, creative
storytellers, and strategic visionaries. Together they
mix art and science to turn brands into favorites.
Weapon Agency has headed up projects for clients
including Skullcandy, JEEP, Sony Music, Mountain
Dew, Adobe, and many others.

56 © 2025 BEST OF STATE

teammates both on and off the field. Beyond athletics,
Avie actively participates in the school’s Campus Life
program, where she serves as a peer minister, Kairos
participant, and member of STAMP (Student Advisor
Mentor Program). Additionally, she volunteers as a
youth coach, inspiring the next generation of athletes.

Fitness Camp/Retreat
Changes Health & Fitness
Changes Health & Fitness is a leader in Corporate
Wellness and Transformative Fitness, recognized as
a trusted expert in the fitness industry. Known for
providing practical strategies to stay in shape, even
with the busiest schedules, owner Charles Pigott
represents more than just a personal trainer—he leads
a company that has positioned itself as a world-class
innovator in personal training, corporate wellness
programs, and transformative fitness retreats. Through
cutting-edge approaches to health, Changes Health
& Fitness has made a profound impact on its clients,
employees, and the broader community.

Male Amateur Athlete
Eric Randall Johnson
Eric Johnson is the winningest and most decorated
master athlete in Utah history. He won 85 medals
in track & field and swimming in 2019, pushing his
career medal count past 2,000. Eric competes for the
SoCal Track Club, the #1 track & field team in America,
and last year he won 3 All-American Awards and
finished the 2020 season ranked #2 in the world in the
1500-meter Racewalk.

Martial Arts Studio
Shao Long Academy
Shao Long Academy is Utah’s premier source of
Chinese Gongfu/Kungfu and Tai Chi/Taiji, specializing
in Wudang and Shaolin style, and host of Utah’s oldest
Chinese lion dancing group, Jung Hing, host and co-
owner of Asian Link Project, and owner of the largest
Tai Chi Community in Utah, SLC Community Tai Chi.
They offer adult Tai Chi, and children’s, beginner’s, and
adult’s intermediate classes.

Parks
Grapevine Trailhead
The Grapevine Trailhead is located in Southern Utah’s
Washington City, is known for its award winning parks
and trail system. Perched on a hillside with sweeping
views of nearby mountains and mesas, this scenic
location has long been a favorite for hikers, bikers,
and equestrian riders. However, it previously lacked
a designated parking area or formal trailhead, leading

SPORTS & RECREATION MEDAL WINNERS
Aquatics Program
Big Blue Swim School
Big Blue Swim School is dedicated to instilling water
confidence and essential swim skills in individuals
of all ages. Their mission prioritizes water safety and
personalized instruction. Their highly experienced,
certified instructors design comprehensive
programs—from early childhood water safety classes
to advanced competitive training—that build strong
swimming fundamentals and foster a lifelong passion
for aquatic activities. Their program starts as young as
3 months old and grows with the children as their skills
improve up to 14 years old.

Boot Camp Fitness
Fit To Recover
Helping individuals address their challenges with
substance use disorder (SUD) since 2015 is Fit to
Recover’s proudest achievement. They started with a
free Saturday bootcamp offered by Ian Acker who had
just finished treatment and longed for sober fellowship
and a kickass workout. What he found -- and founded,
-- was Fit to Recover (FTR), a gym/community center
that offers a unique blend of exercise, nutrition,
creativity and service. You might think of FTR as a
complete mind and body gym.

Dance Studio
Utah Dance Artists
Utah Dance Artists (UDA) stands as a premier
institution, offering an extensive array of dance
classes tailored for aspiring dancers aged 18 months
to 18 years. Our curriculum spans a wide range of
dance genres, including ballet, pointe, jazz, tap,
contemporary, hip hop, ballroom and tumbling.
UDA values its role in the community, serving as a
beacon of exceptional dance education for everyone
of all ages, abilities, gender, and interests, including
dancers with special needs through our renowned
Darby’s Dancer program. With two state-of-the-art
studio locations in South Jordan and Draper, Utah,
UDA’s influence spans from students in Cottonwood
Heights to Herriman to Lehi.

Early Childhood Recreation
Layla’s Little Neighborhood
Nelly Castillo, the nominee, brings her experience with
a diverse background and commitment spanning over
15 years in fields including business administration,
customer service, office management, and event

planning. Additionally, she has dedicated 1 year to art
instruction and another year to child care at the YMCA
in Texas. Nelly spent 2 years nurturing early childhood
development as a 1st-grade teacher at The American
School in Dubai, UAE.

Equestrian Sports
Cleone Peterson
Eccles Equestrian Center
Spanning 100 acres, the Cleone Peterson Eccles
Equestrian Center serves as a premier training
ground and competition site for riders across multiple
disciplines. From Western rodeo events to English-
style dressage and eventing, the center provides state-
of-the-art facilities, including indoor and outdoor
arenas and extensive stabling. The Skyline Eventing
Park, a 60-acre cross-country eventing facility is Utah’s
only dedicated eventing course.

Family & Group Sports Facilities
FatCats
FatCats began in 1999 on the back of napkin, when two
friends wanted to create an experience where families
could enjoy quality food and superior entertainment,
or “All Out Fun” as they called it, all under one roof.
They now boast 9 large centers for family entertainment
across Utah and Arizona. Their mission statement is,
“We delight and connect people – one film, one game,
one experience at a time”.

Female Amateur Athlete
Terah Johnson
Terah Johnson was the winningest Master Female
Amateur Athlete in the State of Utah in 2021. She
won 21 track and field and long-distance road racing
medals, and won 2 silver medals and one bronze
medal at the 2021 WORLD Senior Games. Terah, age
61 works at Hobby Lobby and enjoys sewing, reading,
exercising, leathercrafts, and cooking. She is the
mother of 7 children.

Female High School Athlete
Avie Hernandez
Avie Hernandez, a senior at Juan Diego Catholic High
School, is a dedicated multi-sport athlete competing
in football, wrestling, basketball, and softball.
She has demonstrated exceptional versatility and
commitment, earning four-year varsity letters in all four
sports. Her leadership qualities shine through as she
serves as a team captain, guiding and motivating her

Division Chair
Sports & Recreation
Jason Russell

57© 2025 BEST OF STATE

visitors to park along the road and navigate their way
to the trail. As nearby communities grew and the trail’s
popularity increased, the need for a formal trailhead
became clear. Establishing this new trailhead has
improved accessibility, safety, and convenience for the
many outdoor enthusiasts who frequent the area.

Personal Training
Changes Health & Fitness
Changes Health & Fitness is a leader in Corporate
Wellness and Transformative Fitness, recognized as
a trusted expert in the fitness industry. Known for
providing practical strategies to stay in shape, even
with the busiest schedules, owner Charles Pigott
represents more than just a personal trainer—he leads
a company that has positioned itself as a world-class
innovator in personal training, corporate wellness
programs, and transformative fitness retreats. Through
cutting-edge approaches to health, Changes Health
& Fitness has made a profound impact on its clients,
employees, and the broader community.

Player Development
Davis Education Foundation
Davis Education Foundation is the public nonprofit
fundraising arm for Davis School District. Its
mission is “to remove barriers to learning, provide
educational opportunities to every student, and
create partnerships that connect the community
through giving.” A relatively new effort for the
Foundation is the development of students through
the Unified Sports program.

Private Fitness/Recreation Facility
Ogden Athletic Club
Ogden Athletic Club (The Club) is a premier, full-
service private health club in South Ogden. We pride
ourselves on having a welcoming, family-friendly
environment where our members feel at home. The
Club has been in business since 1976 (over 45 years).
We have always strived to be on the cutting edge of
new and effective fitness options. We aim to provide
members with the best facilities, instruction, and
environment possible to achieve their vision of health
and well-being.

Pro Athlete
Fernando Ramirez
Fernando Ramirez got into dog sledding when he
was eight years old. He fell in love with the sport and
was able to rescue a few dogs and train his new team
to pull sleds. When Fernando married his wife, Dana,
they took a leap of faith to start a dog sled rescue and
rehabilitation/touring/racing kennel in Park City.
They wanted their company to be centered around
education and share their passion for helping their
rescues run towards a better future. Their goal is to
always inspire people, young and old, to live their best
life and to make a difference in others’ lives as well.

Recreation/Sports Program
Club V
Club V is a youth Sports Club headquartered in North
Salt Lake. Their mission is to awaken athletes to
rise up against ordinary performance by cultivating
extraordinary effort through youth sports. They strive
to develop confident leaders through the sports of
volleyball and basketball.

Recreational Attraction
Utah Tech University
Human Performance Center
Embodying its mission of “Active Learning,
Active Life,” the Utah Tech University Human
Performance Center (HPC) represents multi-faceted
design accommodating academic, athletic, and
recreational space working to enhance the overall
learning environment.

Recreational Coach
David F Pack, Ph.D
David Pack has been learning, competing and coaching
in numerous sports for over four decades, most notably
tennis and soccer. David is able to draw upon these
accomplishments to help teach students qualities of
wholesome recreational sporting opportunities with
physical benefits, and also the mental and emotional
necessities of good sportsmanship, determination
and problem solving under stress and pressure. Heavy
emphasis is placed on being gracious in good will
recreational competitiveness and sportsmanship, both
on and off the field, including classroom and home life.

Recreational Vehicles
Airstream of Utah
Airstream of Utah is a family owned and operated
RV dealership that opened in 2017. After being open
for only 6 years, Airstream of Utah is already a top ten
Airstream dealership in the nation. It has achieved the
highest honor of being a 5-rivet Dealer from Airstream
Inc., for outstanding performance in sales, service, and
customer service.

Sporting Event
Huntsman World Senior Games
The Huntsman World Senior Games is the largest
annual multi-sport event for athletes 50 and over in
the world. Since its inception in 1987, it has hosted
individuals from 80 different countries. In 2019, about
11,179 athletes participated in the Games. To put that
in perspective, the 2016 Summer Olympics in Rio de
Janeiro hosted 11,238 athletes.

Sports & Recreation Products
Quality Billiards & Game Rooms
Locally owned and operated for over 55 years, Quality
Billiards & Game Rooms specializes in everything
game room: pool tables, arcade machines, poker and
gaming tables, pinball machines, skee-ball machines,
shuffleboard tables, and much more. They have a
state-of-the-art showroom that encourages hands on
play and interaction.

Sports Injury Rehab/Recovery
Axcess Accident Center
Axcess Accident Center has been involved with the
healing of musculoskeletal injuries for over 15 years.
They have treated and sponsored Olympic trial athletes,
rodeo participants, indoor national football leagues,
NBA players, hockey players, and high school and elite
sport athletes. They have four clinics across the state
and their mission is “Living Your Extraordinary Life.”
Their cutting-edge services include ozone injections,
decompression therapy, chiropractic adjustments,
massage, acupuncture, rehab exercises, and many
other rehab modalities. They are experts at finding all
possible solutions and outcomes for each patient.

Winter Recreation
Rancho Luna Lobos
Rancho Luna Lobos in Peoa is home to Luna Lobos
Dog Sledding, which competes in some of the most
competitive races in the world and offers dog sled
tours, camps, mushing classes, and more. They believe
in rescuing dogs in hopes of offering them a second
chance at living their dreams.

SPORTS & RECREATION MEDAL WINNERS

YOUR LOCAL OFFICE TECHNOLOGY PARTNER

Find out how you can help serve
kids in your local community at
USANAKidsEat.org

USANA believes every person should have
access to secure sources of quality, nutritious
food. The USANA Foundation leads community-
driven programs to eliminate hunger and
malnutrition throughout the world.

Learn more about USANA’s
mission to fight hunger at
USANAFoundation.org
