Hypercraft Raises $26m Series A, Surpasses $100m Valuation Milestone
Utah VC
Subscribe Sign in
Hypercraft Raises $26m Series A, Surpasses $100m Valuation Milestone
Funds to support re-imagining of mobility technology, create open-sourced system
Luke Gunderson
Jun 04, 2025
Share
PROVO, UT — June 3, 2025 — Hypercraft , a leading hybrid and electric powertrain supplier reshaping the future with its software-defined mobility operating system, announced today the completion of a $26 million Series A raise, with a post-money valuation of $106 million. The funds will be used to support Hypercraft's re-imagining of mobility technology defined by software and AI, and to create an open ecosystem that third-party developers can create apps for, simplifying the integration of new technology for OEM's.
The financing was led by Stalwart Ventures , the venture capital firm credited for raising the largest early-stage venture fund raise in Utah's history. A strategic investment was made by Strategic Development Fund (SDF), an Abu Dhabi-based investment company wholly owned by EDGE Group PJSC. SDF supports mid to growth-stage companies in strategic industries, including technologies in defense and security, robotics and autonomous technology.
"We're proud of Hypercraft's achievement in closing this raise. Their team adapted and excelled through strong headwinds countless others couldn't withstand," said Stalwart Ventures Executive Managing Director David Mann. "We believed in Hypercraft's thesis from day one and are excited to support them as they build upon existing proprietary technology that has the power to mark an era of invention in the modern automotive sector and related industries."
Mohamed Al Mazrouei, Chief Portfolio Management Officer at SDF, commented: "We believe in Hypercraft's technology and long-term potential in the mobility and automotive space. This investment aligns with SDF's mandate to support innovative startups and build strategic partnerships in the UAE. Our investment marks the beginning of a strategic partnership with Hypercraft, where we are now exploring initiatives which, when implemented, would bring Hypercraft's advanced technology to the UAE and several regions, and support Hypercraft in building its business in the region, while we achieve SDF's strategic mandate."
In February, Hypercraft unveiled HyperLynk™ , a revolutionary technology product developed in response to the challenges facing OEMs and integrators in government and defense operations and across all industries. HyperLynk™ is an intelligent communication system that unifies existing protocols, integrating more than 150 system components into a unified controls architecture, creating an unrivaled and seamless experience that meets critical needs during a time of change.
Since 2023, Hypercraft has provided support for the development of more than 20 vehicle platforms in the performance, marine and defense industries. This support enabled vehicle manufacturers to remain flexible and adapt to changing market conditions.
Today, Hypercraft is preparing to revolutionize mobility, which is facing increasingly complex and comprehensive shifts from legacy engines and system architectures, to a software-defined vehicle platform. This industry transformation has served as the catalyst for Hypercraft's development of a totally unique, software-led mobility business.
For more information, please visit: www.hypercraftusa.com .
About Hypercraft
Founded in 2021, Hypercraft believes in a future where innovators have greater access to the best mobility technologies. We are unleashing the unlimited performance potential of advanced propulsion and software-defined technologies in every motorized industry vertical. The future is powered by Hypercraft.
About Stalwart Ventures
Stalwart Ventures is a seed-stage venture fund designed to scale founders faster and help them drive more value for customers, employees, and investors. We combine our deep operational experience with a commitment to keeping our promises to help founders allocate capital, build high-performing teams, prevent premature scaling, and enlist the help of others to scale their businesses. We're not just passive investors; we actively participate in the startup journey, matching our capital with expertise.
About Strategic Development Fund (SDF):
Strategic Development Fund (SDF) is an Abu Dhabi-based investment company, wholly owned by EDGE Group PJSC. Established in 2019, SDF focuses on generating financial returns and fostering economic impact within the UAE's strategic sectors. The company invests in dual-use and commercial technologies across areas such as aerospace, advanced mobility, autonomous systems, robotics, and artificial intelligence. By leveraging global partnerships, SDF accelerates the growth of its portfolio companies and fosters the development of cutting-edge technologies within the UAE. Additionally, SDF contributes to enhancing critical supply chain resilience, aligning with the UAE's vision for innovation and economic diversification.
Share
Top Latest
No posts
Ready for more?
Subscribe
© 2026 Beehive Venture Partners 🐝 · Privacy ∙ Terms ∙ Collection notice
Start your Substack Get the app
Substack is the home for great culture
