APEX Accelerator - Governor's Office of Economic Development
Home
APEX Accelerator
Utah APEX Accelerator
Mission:
APEX Accelerator brings businesses into the government industrial base.
Purpose:
Assist businesses in pursuing and securing government contracts.
Facilitate the transfer of innovative technology to the defense industrial base.
Provide access to networks, resources, and potential partners.
Conduct training sessions and workshops to improve government contracting skills.
Looking to become a client? Apply Now.
APEX Accelerator offices throughout the state are open and available for free in-person one-on-one counseling. To contact the APEX team’s regional manager nearest you, please scroll down to view contact information for our managers.
If we may be of any assistance, please get in touch with us at [email protected] or 1-801-538-8655.
Please let us know how well we are serving you by leaving a review .
The Utah APEX Accelerator is funded in part through a cooperative agreement with the Department of Defense.
APEX Events
What We Do
Utah’s APEX Accelerator helps Utah businesses find, bid on, and win procurement opportunities with the Department of Defense (DoD) and federal, state, and local entities.
The team educates and assists Utah businesses to compete more effectively in the government marketplace through one-on-one and group counseling.
We are proud members of the National APEX Accelerator Alliance (NAPEX).
LYNX Alliance
The Department of War Office of Small Business Programs has launched LYNX ALLIANCE, a new dynamic, all-in-one digital platform designed to empower businesses with the tools, connections, and insights needed to accelerate success in defense and other federal government markets.
LYNX offers structured profiles, readiness assessments, and AI-informed roadmaps to help businesses focus investment, identify partners, and pursue opportunities more strategically.
The LYNX Ecosystem
Unlock Growth Potential : Get a personalized AI/ML-informed roadmap aligned with your company's strengths, goals, and product/service offerings, translating intent into an actionable path.
Build Strategic Relationships & Expand Your Network : Connect with industry partners, associations, and support networks that align with your goals.
Advanced Discovery & Matching: Increase discoverability and opportunity matching to focus on winnable pursuits.
Engage and Learn : Explore curated industry events and gain access to training and resources designed for your success.
Access Counseling Services : Collaborate with advisory/counseling resources to receive curated recommendations for opportunities, networking, and knowledge sharing.
LYNX is now open to businesses ready to take the next step into the
defense industrial base.
Learn More & Register
Apply for Services
▸ Apply For APEX Services Select the county in which your business is located:
Beaver County
Box Elder County
Cache County
Carbon County
Daggett County
Davis County
Duchesne County
Emery County
Garfield County
Grand County
Iron County
Juab County
Kane County
Millard County
Morgan County
Piute County
Rich County
Salt Lake County (Metro)
Greater Salt Lake County (Bluffdale, Draper, Herriman, Kearns, Midvale, Riverton, Sandy, South Jordan, Taylorsville, West Jordan, West Valley City)
San Juan County
Sanpete County
Sevier County
Summit County
Tooele County
Uintah County
Utah County
Wasatch County
Washington County
Wayne County
Weber County
▸ Individual Counseling Utah APEX Accelerator provides individual counseling and contracting assistance training at your site, or one of our seven locations statewide. The APEX team can assist you in the development of strategy and marketing tools that will help you to better compete in the government marketplace. The Utah APEX Accelerator can help you to become eligible to become a government contractor, vendor or supplier and can assist with registration in government databases. Utah’s APEX team offers technical assistance related to small business certifications and participation and solicitation (RFP, RFQ) document review. APEX Accelerator counselors provide individual counseling on all aspects of government contracting, including assisting in finding the right bid match, marketing to the government, and requesting and preparing solicitation documents. APEX Accelerator counselors also seek out businesses that provides innovative technologies needed in the defense industrial base.
More Resources
▸ Bid-Matching Email Notifications The Utah APEX Accelerator team offers a proprietary bid-match software service that compares your company’s products and/or services in combination with industrial NAICS codes and keywords to multiple government solicitation portals. Matching bid opportunities are emailed directly to the client, saving valuable time otherwise spent searching multiple bid sources. Government solicitations range in scope and type, but are not limited to, the following:
Federal agency software and integrated telecommunications circuits
Aerospace and defense systems
Federal/state engineering services and all types of equipment
Construction projects, including home and/or warehouse design/build, asphalt paving, or grounds maintenance
▸ Contract Opportunities
APBI Day 1, April 22, 2024: video
APBI Day 2, April 23, 2024: video
APBI Day 3, April 24, 2024: video
APBI Day 4, April 25, 2024: video
▸ Cybersecurity Services Utah APEX Accelerator Helps With Navigating Cyber Requirements
The APEX Accelerator program, under the management of the Department of Defense (DOD) Office of Small Business Programs, plays a critical role in the department’s efforts to identify and engage with a wide range of businesses entering and participating in the defense supply chain. The program provides education and training all businesses need to participate to become capable of participating in DOD and other government contracts, including cybersecurity compliance.
Your Utah APEX Accelerator (part of the Governor’s Office of Economic Development) is ready to provide you with support and advice on implementing your response to federal and DOD regulations that cover cybersecurity requirements.
We can help you understand the applicable contract clauses, such as FAR 52.204-21, DFARS 252.204-7012, and DFARS 252.204-7024, and guide you through the steps to implement a compliant cybersecurity program.
Contact your APEX regional manager for support. business.utah.gov/apex
▸ Helpful Links Register in SAM
Employer Identification Number (EIN) : Apply for an Employer Identification Number (EIN) before registering in SAM if you don’t already have one.
System for Award Management (SAM.Gov) : The System for Award Management (SAM) is the official, centralized, electronic registration process for vendors that want to do business with the federal government. Formerly known as Central Contractor Registration (CCR) and the Online Representations and Certifications Application (ORCA). SAM is the primary federal government repository for most government-required representations and certifications. Registration is always free.
User Guide : The official user guide for registering in SAM.
Tutorial Video : An official YouTube video from 2012 on registering in SAM.
NAICS Codes : North American Industrial Classification System (NAICS) codes are used to register in the government’s vendor database, SAM, for federal contracting. They are also used in solicitations and bids to identify what a business does.
FSC/PSC Codes : Listing and search engine for Federal Supply Codes (FSCs) and Product Service Codes (PSCs), which are used to register in the government’s vendor database, SAM, for federal contracting.
Small Business Size Standards : The Small Business Administration (SBA) website on how size is determined. Use this information to determine whether your business is considered small.
Government User Guidance on Small Business Information in SAM : Information for government users on how to interpret small business information in SAM.
Find Opportunities
Civilian Agency Procurement Forecasts : Upcoming, projected procurement needs for each federal civilian agency.
Contracting Opportunities : Opportunities from the federal government valued at more than $25,000.
Defense Logistics Agency (DLA) Internet Bid Board System (DIBBS) : DIBBS is a web-based application that allows you to search for, view, and submit secure quotes on Requests for Quotations (RFQs) for DLA items of supply. DIBBS also allows users to search and view Requests for Proposals (RFPs), Invitations for Bid (IFBs), awards, and other procurement information related to DLA.
Utah Public Procurement Place (U3P) : The State of Utah’s opportunities website, including state and local procurements.
Contracting Assistance Programs
Small Business Administration (SBA) Eligibility Tool : Answer questions to see for which SBA programs your business may qualify.
8(a) Business Development Program
Joint Venture Guidelines : SBA’s rules on 8(a) mentor-protégé agreements.
Net Worth Determination : Determine your net worth to qualify for 8(a) program using SBA Form 413.
Woman Owned Small Business (WOSB) Federal Contracting Program
Service-Disabled Veteran-Owned Business (SDVOSB) Program
HUBZone Program
HUBZone Locator Tool : Type in an address to determine whether it is located in a HUBZone.
Contact Information Lists
Federal Government Small Business Contact List
Small Business Specialists
Department of Homeland Security
General Services Administration
National Aeronautics and Space Administration
United States Department of Energy
United States Department of Transportation
Procurement Center Representatives
SBIR/STTR Grants
Department of Defense SBIR/STTR Innovation Portal (DISP) : The Small Business Innovation Research (SBIR) and the Small Business Technology Transfer Program (STTR) programs are highly competitive government-funded contracts or grants that encourage domestic small businesses to engage in Federal Research/Research and Development (R/R&D) that has the potential for commercialization. The recipient projects must have the potential for commercialization and must meet specific U.S. Government R&D needs.
DoD SBIR/STTR Program Overview Video : A Youtube video giving a brief synopsis of the SBIR and STTR programs.
DoD SBIR/STTR Training Website : Helpful library of materials for working with the SBIR/STTR programs.
DoD SBIR/STTR Broad Agency Announcement (BAA) Schedule : View currently active BAAs for DoD SBIR/STTRs.
General Services Administration (GSA) Websites
GSA Homepage : The U.S. General Services Administration’s homepage.
GSA eLibrary : GSA eLibrary contains the latest GSA contract award information.
GSA Advantage : GSA Advantage is the government’s central online shopping superstore. GSA Advantage provides online access to millions of products and services from thousands of federal contractors.
GSA Global Supply : GSA Global Supply is a federal program administered by the General Services Administration. It is a requisition-based supply program for customers worldwide, including the Department of Defense.
Spending Databases
USASpending.Gov : Records of federal spending for contracts and grants.
Federal IT Dashboard : View details of federal information technology investments.
Contracts Awarded by the Department of Defense : Contracts valued at $7.5 million or more, which may contain subcontract opportunities, are announced each business day.
Other Useful Links
USA.Gov : The U.S. Government’s official web search site.
Federal Acquisition Regulations (FAR) : The official website for the regulations governing federal contracting.
Small Business Administration (SBA) Federal Contracting : The SBA’s guide to federal contracting.
Cybersecurity Requirements : A DoD briefing on implementing DFARS Clause 252.204-7012
NIGP Code Directory : A list of “commodity codes” as developed by the National Institute of Governmental Purchasing, adopted by more than 1,400 state and local governments; NIGP codes are needed to register as a vendor with many state and local governments. Note: Utah does not use this system.
Utah Department of Commerce : The state of Utah’s system to register a new business, renew or update your business, or register a Doing Business As (DBA).
Small Business Outreach Calendar
▸ Past Presentations
DIBBS (DLA Internet Bid Board System) Training
DIBBS Training - 1/24/24
DIBBS Technical Data - 7/19/23
DIBBS Training - 2/21/23
▸ System for Award Management (SAM.Gov) Registration There’s no charge or fee to register on SAM.gov for government contracting. Private companies will solicit to help you register in SAM and charge you a fee, but this is unnecessary. The Utah APEX Accelerator team can help you at no charge. Create a user account.
▸ Training Videos Micro Purchasing (June 17, 2023)
Post Award Pointers (May 22, 2023)
Creating a Capabilities Statement (Feb. 28, 2023)
"Thank you, APEX team, for your insights, knowledge, and guidance as I completed the online SBA WOSB self-certification. You were responsive and helpful when I contacted you with questions about aligning my sam.gov and sba.gov records. When I saw on the SBA website that EchoWolf Solutions is now certified, I just had to reach out and let you know of my positive experience with the Utah APEX team. I appreciate your expertise, kindness, patience, educational resources, and support through this exciting time for my business."
– Sally White, EchoWolf Solutions, LLC
"Construction Monitor has worked with the U.S. Census Bureau as a sub-contractor. Because of Utah APEX’s assistance, we successfully managed our subcontractor role with this federal agency. Thank you. We are thankful for all your help."
–David Mineer Jr, president, Construction Monitor
"Apogee Worx is a local, service-disabled, veteran-owned small business focusing on solving warfighter problems. Despite no longer wearing the uniform, we strive to continue serving this great nation while partnering with the industrial base found along the Wasatch Front. We appreciate the APEX team’s desire to give local businesses a leg up and create an environment that allows companies that reside here along the Wasatch Front to thrive.”
–Brian Janroy, Managing Member, Apogee Worx
APEX Accelerator Offices
Contact Our Team
Find the regional manager for your county in the table below. You can also see the entire GOED team on our team webpage .
Name
Title
Regions
Email
Phone Number
Schedule a meeting
Chuck Spence
Director
[email protected]
801-538-8655
Joshua Wiggins
Assistant Director
Kane, Millard, Piute, Sanpete, Sevier, Washington & Wayne counties
[email protected]
801-231-9402
https://calendar.app.google/17SB9sptGvknVLhe8
Joni Anderson
Regional Manager
Beaver, Garfield & Iron counties
[email protected]
435-586-8883
https://calendar.app.google/8YMz5pxvq93J6Kbx9
Darrin Cobler
Regional Manager
Davis, Weber & Morgan counties
[email protected]
801-633-0758
Greyson Jones
Regional Manager
Beaver, Garfield & Iron counties
[email protected]
435-865-8884
Sara Ortiz
Regional Manager
Metro Salt Lake, Summit & Tooele counties
[email protected]
801-538-8775
Jessie Lobato
Regional Manager
Carbon, Daggett, Duchesne, Emery, Grand, San Juan, & Uintah counties
[email protected]
435-650-7007
Troy McClain
Regional Manager
Box Elder, Cache & Rich counties
[email protected]
435-750-3273
Poy Prasurtwong
Regional Manager
Juab, Utah & Wasatch counties
[email protected]
801-633-4900
https://calendar.app.google/Q2xpkBrpLzzfDsqbA
Alex Quayson-Sackey
Regional Manager
South Salt Lake County
[email protected]
801-957-5357
APEX News
All APEX News
60 East South Temple
Suite 300
Salt Lake City, Utah
84111-1041
Phone: (801) 538-8680
Email: [email protected]
Navigation Menu
Home
About
Accolades & Rankings
Boards
Community Data Profiles
Grants & Funding
Events
One Utah Summit
Featured Development Opportunities
In Utah
100 Companies Championing Women
Publications
Statewide Economic Development Contacts
Targeted Industries
Utah Elevated
Why Utah?
Workforce Services
Programs & Services
APEX Accelerator
Business Recruitment & Expansion
Center for International Business & Diplomacy
Center for Rural Development
Community Initiatives
Housing & Community Development
Opportunity Zones
Startup State Initiative
UPSTART
Utah Center for Global Talent
Utah Film Commission
Utah Office of Regulatory Relief
Utah Office of Tourism
Utah Small Business Credit Initiative
News
Contact
Newsletters
Social Media
Team
GOED Employee Hub
Email Newsletter
Sign up for our email newsletter to learn more about our office.
Subscribe
Translate »
