Kids Code Camp 2026 | Utah Geek Events
Home
Events
Code Of Conduct, Diversity and Inclusion
Login
Kids Code Camp 2026
Kids Code Camp 2026
Register Here
Date: Saturday, August 1st, 2026
Neumont University
143 South Main Street
Salt Lake City, UT
84111
All classes/sessions are FREE!!!
You're never too young to start learning how to program! Join us for a half-day of coding instruction for kids of all ages (5+) and abilities. There are two classes per session in topics like Scratch, Python, JavaScript, Unity 3D, Electronics, and more! In each class, we'll teach them how to write a fun game on that platform.
Session Information.
We will have 5 sessions with up to 4 different classes to choose from on each timeslot.
We will have a Setup Session for those who need help preparing for their sessions.
Computers will NOT be provided. Please ensure that you bring a laptop for the kids to use during the event.
Time
Room 1
Room 2
Room 3
Room 4
8:00 am
Registration Begins
Registration Begins
Registration Begins
Registration Begins
8:15-9:00 am
Setup/Install
Setup/Install
Setup/Install
Setup/Install
9:00-10:15am
Scratch 1
Python
Minecraft
10:30-11:45 am
Scratch 2
JavaScript
Godot
Arduino / Electronics
12:00-1:15 pm
Scratch 3
MonoGame
1:15-2:15 pm
Lunch Break
Lunch Break
Lunch Break
Lunch Break
2:15-3:30 pm
Scratch 4
Unity 3D
Minecraft
Project Help**
3:45-5:00 pm
Roblox
** Come here if you need assistance with a game from other sessions
Parking Downtown
We suggest City Creek Mall or the Regent Street parking lot behind the Eccles Theater. There is NO street parking downtown on Saturdays. You can also ride the train and walk down from City Creek. We do NOT offer any parking validation or any reimbursement for parking.
Scratch 1 - Introduction to Scratch
Scratch 1 - Scratchy Goes on a Quest for the Golden Kitty
Beginner Level - Ages 5+
Scratch is a great way to introduce children to programming. It has relatively few concepts that need to be mastered before they can begin exploring and creating by themselves. Most kids really love having this kind of platform to express their creativity.
In this lesson we're going to be teaching concepts of:
Learning how computers take instructions literally
Learn basic terms like sprite, backdrop, sensing, etc.
Learn basic concepts of programming, namely:
Looping
Branching
Math
Algorithms
Each child should have their own computer. This will be all done online so no additional software is needed on the computer.
Please ensure you have your account information for https://scratch.mit.edu/
Scratch 2 - Moonlander
Scratch 2 - Moonlander Game
Easy Level - Scratch 1 Required -Ages 6+
Build the classic Moon Lander game using Scratch!
In this lesson we're going to be teaching concepts of:
Keyboard Input
Game Sequencing
Graphics Effects
Variable Display
Frame rate as applied to physics (gravity & thrust)
Each child should have their own computer. This will be all done online so no additional software is needed on the computer.
Please ensure you have your account information for https://scratch.mit.edu/
Scratch 3 - Super Scratchy
Scratch 3 - Super Scratchy
Easy Level - Scratch 1 & 2 Required - Ages 8+
Building upon what you learned in Scratch 1 and 2, we're going to build a really cool `Super Scratchy` Game! We'll learn about PreFabs, Clones, Collision Detection, Random Number Generation, and more!
Each child should have their own computer. This will be all done online so no additional software is needed on the computer.
Please ensure you have your account information for https://scratch.mit.edu/
Unity 3D - Rocket Maze
Unity 3d - Rocket Maze
Advanced Level - Unity Download Required - Ages 12+
Unity is one of the best game development engines out there. Though it can seem daunting at first, it's easy to master a few basic concepts that we go over in the lesson. We will be giving you everything you need to build your first original game. If you're brave enough, you won't want to miss this.
Each child should have their own computer with Unity installed and plenty of open memory space. To download Unity, go here and download Unity Hub. Once that is installed, go to the installs tab and install the latest version of Unity. The presenter will use Unity 6.4 (6000.4.10f), but it doesn't really matter what version you use.
JavaScript - Tetris
JavaScript - Tetris
Beginner Level - Ages 10+
Have you ever thought about how the web works and how to create the sites and tools we use every day? JavaScript is the language that powers the internet and can be used for many different kinds of applications. In this session, we will be creating a Tetris clone that works very similarly to the original. We will cover the basics of programming (including things like variables and functions) as well as some of the more advanced pieces of a web page.
Come learn how to create a game with one of the most used languages in the world.
Python - Lunar Lander
Beginner Level - Age 10+
Navigate your landing pod gently to the landing pad! Miss the mark and you'll crash! Come in too hot and you'll be rubble! A lesson in physics the fun way. We will learn how to do graphics, sound and keyboard control in Python and leave room for expansion for the kids to do at home.
Please sign up for an account at https://replit.com/
Godot - Black Hole
Advanced Level - Ages 14+
Godot is a powerful alternative to Unity that is fully FOSS software. In this session, we will build a game where you will try to swallow up the earth with a black hole.
This class will teach C#, sprites, text, animation, game design, and keyboard control.
Please download before class: https://github.com/godotengine/godot/releases/download/4.4.1-stable/Godot_v4.4.1-stable_mono_win64.zip
Electronics - Arduino
Electronics - Arduino
Intermediate Level - Age 12+
Arduinos are really tiny, very inexpensive computers. In this session we'll show you how to integrate with electronic circuits, program a few basic examples, and finish with the classic Simon game.
An account for TinkerCad is required. Please make sure you have this information ahead of the class.
https://www.tinkercad.com/
Minecraft: Education Edition
Minecraft Education Edition
Beginner Level - Ages 6+
For this section of Kids Code Camp, we will be learning about coding principles using the popular game Minecraft. Students may already be familiar with this system, as it is a tool used by many educators to teach coding principles. We will start from the beginning, though, so no one will be left out.
We will start by getting to know how to use the Agent in Minecraft to automate work for us, and we will move on to more complicated examples like building structures. We will also use some classic programming challenges to build things like pyramids in Minecraft.
This should be an exciting program for students as it will allow them to create and build in a world in which they are likely already used to playing. So, come join the fun!
Requirements
Minecraft Education Edition, which can be downloaded here: https://education.minecraft.net/get-started
You need to have a valid school email to do this lesson. Please make sure your school district has licencing for the kids for this product. Licenses can also be purchased by following the instructions at https://edusupport.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/360061369812-Purchase-Commercial-Licenses
MonoGame - Gorillas
MonoGame - Gorillas Game
Advanced Level - Ages 14+
Gorillas is a video game written in QBasic many years ago. The filename was "gorilla.bas". We will remake the game using C# and MonoGame. Two gorillas atop a city skyline take turns throwing bananas at each other! Adjust the angle and velocity of your throw to control the trajectory of your banana.
This class will teach MonoGame, sprites, text, transparency, animation, sound, random number generation, keyboard control.
Please setup your computer before the class by following the instructions here:
https://docs.monogame.net/articles/getting_started/1_setting_up_your_os_for_development_windows.html?tabs=android
Volunteer and Help Bring More to the Community
We need your help this year! Consider giving back to the community and help support this free event. The session content is already available for those willing to teach or assist with the various sessions. To get started, simply fill out the volunteer form ( https://forms.gle/FS4dasGLD36YLi2K6 ). If you have something specific you're wanting to help with, then please let me know either in the Google form of via email. Please also invite your friends or colleagues to volunteer.
&copy; 2026 - Utah Geek Events
