Salt Lake City Accounting, Tax & Advisory Services | Eide Bailly Alerts | Locations | Client Access |
Industries
Services
Insights
Events
Who We Are
Careers
Contact Us
Alerts Locations Client Access
Home
Locations
Salt Lake City
Eide Bailly Salt Lake City
Trusted advisors in Salt Lake City and beyond.
At Eide Bailly, we bring expertise in tax, audit, advisory, and technology to improve your performance, reduce risk, and support long-term growth. In Salt Lake City, our local team connects you to the full strength of a national firm — with personal attention and insight rooted in your community.
Contact Us
5 Triad Center, Ste. 600
Salt Lake City, UT 84180-1106
Get Directions
801.532.2200
Grow your career with Eide Bailly.
We’re consistently named a best place to work, thanks to our supportive culture, growth opportunities, and community involvement. Explore openings in Salt Lake City and beyond.
Search Careers
Build a stronger business today and for the future.
Connect with local advisors backed by national resources — ready to help you tackle challenges and achieve your goals.
Let's Talk
Salt Lake City Leadership
Paul O. Skeen
Partner, Board of Directors, Utah Market Leader
Paul's experience in public accounting includes involvement in all aspects of financial and compliance audits, with emphasis in assurance services to governmental entities and dealerships. He has experienced knowledge of governmental reporting rules.
More Leadership
More Leadership
Careers
Client Access
Support
Who We Are
Insights
Select Topics & Stay Current Subscribe
Eide Bailly is the brand name under which Eide Bailly LLP and Eide Bailly Advisory LLC and its subsidiary entities provide professional services. Eide Bailly LLP and Eide Bailly Advisory LLC (and its respective subsidiary entities) practice as an alternative practice structure in accordance with the AICPA Code of Professional Conduct and applicable law, regulations, and professional standards. Eide Bailly LLP is a licensed independent CPA firm that provides attest services to its clients. Eide Bailly Advisory LLC (and its respective subsidiary entities) provide tax and business advisory services to their clients. Eide Bailly Advisory LLC and its subsidiary entities are not licensed CPA firms.
Disclaimer
Eide Bailly Privacy Statement
