About (opens in new tab) Skip to main content Set location
Search
Set location
Sign in
Patient Resources Professionals
Back
Primary Children's Hospital - Salt Lake City
Medical Services
About About us
About
Awards
Nursing
Price transparency
Your Visit Your Visit
Patient support
Visiting and staying
Referring Providers
Give
About Primary Children's Hospital
Welcome to your world of care!
About us
At Intermountain Primary Children’s Hospital we’re here to be your family’s partner in care. Combining our expertise with yours, together, we’ll collaborate towards your child’s complete well-being.
With every visit, our care approach is to integrate evidence-based practices and emotional health—encouraging conversations with family, children, and caregivers to inspire a healthy mind.
From your local pediatrician to our specialty services at Intermountain Primary Children’s Hospital, your child’s care will be personalized and integrate their unique needs, experiences, and feelings.
History, collaboration, and leadership
Our history
Our journey started in 1922 with a 35-bed facility in a large Salt Lake City, Utah home. In 1952 we moved to a 70-bed facility and with community donations, kept growing to 170 beds. By 1977, we teamed up with the University of Utah School of Medicine, adding in the benefits of what education can bring to care.
Fast forward to 2014, we became a bustling hub with over 60 specialized pediatric services, a team of 800 pediatric providers, and a dedicated support staff of over 3,000 caregivers. And the excitement doesn’t stop there! By early 2024, our doors opened to a brand-new Primary Children’s Hospital in Lehi, Utah, with five floors, 66 beds, and a three-story medical office building.
Our community, partnerships, teamwork, and care for children we serve, keeps us growing and thriving every day. Quite the adventure, right?
Intermountain Health + Children
Intermountain Health is the largest nonprofit health system in the Mountain West, serving Utah, Montana, Nevada, Idaho, Colorado, and Wyoming. Together, we're able to provide a larger impact of care and jointly stay dedicated to creating healthier communities and helping children thrive.
Model of care
Fundamental to our Children’s Health system is our Primary Children’s Hospitals, located in Salt Lake City, Lehi, and Taylorsville, Utah. These locations offer a base for our growth and provide our Child First and Always promise, while aiming to be a model health system for children’s care.
Executive Board Members
Katy Welkie, VP Children's Health, CEO Primary Children's Hospital, Board Liaison
Sophia DiCaro, Board Chair
Karen Hale
Kathy Ostler, MD
Angelo Giardino, MD
Doug Barnhart, MD
Melinda Simmons
Micki Ahrens
Latu Kinikini
Ally Isom
Vicki Varela
Marla DeJong, PhD
Ruth Todd
Jose Enrique
France Davis, II
Greg Cook
Jani Iwamoto
Chad Wallis, MD, Medical Staff President
More about us
Our medical services
Complete medical services, consultations, advanced diagnostics and treatment, and the best surgical care. Learn about our services and departments.
Foundation
Our care, expertise, and services would not be possible without support from our communities and donors. Learn more about how you can help.
Awards
Recognized as a leading pediatric healthcare provider, Primary Children’s Hospital is honored with numerous awards for excellence in care.
Slide 1 of 3
Inspiring connections, conversations, and well-being.
Visit our Gift Shop!
The Primary Children's Salt Lake Gift Shop is located in the Main Lobby. Open Monday-Friday from 9am to 7pm and Saturday from 10am to 4pm.
801-662-6565
Advisory councils
Your voice matters
We want our decisions to be informed by our family and community members. Learn how our advisory councils assist in this process.
Family Advisory Council
Youth Advisory Council
Work with us
As a nationally ranked academic pediatric medical center, our 289-bed facility treats children with complex illness and injuries across six states. We also have residencies and internship opportunities in areas such as nursing, expressive therapies, and child life.
View open jobs
Nursing practices
Send me a sticker
Children's Health Home
Pediatric services & specialties
Donate to Children's Health
Sign in
For patients
Blogs
Classes and events
Billing
Financial assistance
Pricing transparency
Sign in to my account
For professionals
Professional resources
Research
Explore careers
Continuing education
Medical staff resources
Intermountain Health
About us
Newsroom
Form 990
Contact us
For caregivers (our employees)
Copyright ©2026, Intermountain Health, All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy
Non-Discrimination
Terms of use
CHNA Reports
Form 990
Sign in
For patients Blogs
Classes and events
Billing
Financial assistance
Pricing transparency
Sign in to my account
For professionals Professional resources
Research
Explore careers
Continuing education
Medical staff resources
Intermountain Health About us
Newsroom
Form 990
Contact us
For caregivers (our employees)
Copyright ©2026, Intermountain Health, All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy
Non-Discrimination
Terms of use
CHNA Reports
Form 990
