Huntsman World Senior Games — About Us

Douglas Labrum, President

Kathie Thayne, Vice President

Nancy Colarossi, Secretary

Steve Radmall, Treasurer

Shelly Osterloh Young

The Huntsman World Senior Games

We are the largest annual multi-sport event in the world for athletes aged 50 and over. Our event, which includes over 40 different sports, has taken place for two weeks each October in St. George, Utah, USA for over 35 years. From softball to swimming, from square dance to soccer, The Huntsman World Senior Games offers a world class competition experience.

Participants can register online for a single event in one sport, or they can compete in multiple events in several different sports. Most sports offer different levels of skill, so beginners and experienced athletes alike will have fun and be challenged. The Games is a qualifying event for the National Senior Games, which is held every other year.

Each year team registration opens January 1, giving teams the chance to reserve their spot in the tournament. All athletes need to register individually, beginning March 1. There is a limit on how many teams can compete in each age group, and some individual sports fill up quickly, so it's important to register early! Registration closes September 1 and if you want to catch our early bird discount, register before August 1.

The Games is a 501(c)(3) charitable organization that provides seniors a venue of international sports competition and education on active aging with the mission to foster worldwide peace, health and friendship and lead the world in active aging. Visitors or spectators are welcome to attend all sports competitions free of charge including the fabulous Concert & Celebration and amazing opening ceremonies. Or they can register to be an "official fan" and participate in walking tours, socials and health screenings. There are also thousands of opportunities to volunteer.

Because we offer a quality experience, we have many loyal participants who have come to the Games for years! Be one of them! Register today!

History of the World Senior Games

The HUNTSMAN WORLD SENIOR GAMES, as it is known today, began in 1987 as the World Senior Games, an international senior sports competition. Founded by Daisy and John H. Morgan, Jr., the Games began with their vision of an international sports event for men and women ages 55 and better. Both agreed that the golden years were better when good health and physical fitness became a way of life, not an occasional hobby.

In 1989 Jon M. Huntsman, Chairman of the Huntsman Corporation, became the Games' principal sponsor after recognizing that the Games not only fostered lifetime fitness, but also expanded Utah's economic vitality. A proud supporter of the Games, the Huntsman family continues to open the Games personally, with a warm welcome to the athletes.

Since its inception, the Games have been open to all men and women meeting the age requirement. The second year of the Games the age requirement was reduced from age 55 to age 50 to include more athletes and to encourage those looking at retirement to become involved in a personal fitness program or team sport.

A small full-time staff works year round and is joined by more than 2,500 eager seasonal volunteers to host 40 athletic events over a two-week period each October. Headquartered in Southern Utah, the Huntsman World Senior Games has become a renowned event among serious athletes from Japan to Russia and from Alaska to Australia. Scores of countries have participated in the Games, where peace among nations is fostered through friendly competition.

In 2024, the Games took on the designation of The Senior World Championships. This new designation opens a new era a international competition and cultural exchange, providing and even larger platform from which to foster worldwide peace, health and friendships. Even with the new designation, the Huntsman World Senior Games: The Senior World Championships remains an open event for athletes of all skill levels.

In addition to athletic events, the Games promote health by providing life saving health screenings for cancer-breast and prostate. Screenings also detect other serious health threats--glaucoma, diabetes, high blood pressure, elevated cholesterol, and decreased bone density. Volunteer medical and nursing students assist with the screenings and generous sponsors provide diagnostic equipment and services.

Multiple social events for athletes, volunteers and the community are also part of the package. They bring athletes and guests together in a social atmosphere where they share in, and congratulate each other for, their achievements. This important aspect of the Games emphasizes the celebration of success for all participants, whether or not they win a medal.

An overview of the Games would not be complete without mentioning our volunteers--thousands of adults, youth, and children who donate innumerable hours to make this two-week event a treasured experience for all. From sport directors to entertainers, each volunteer plays a valuable role in the success of the Games.

As time marches on, the Huntsman World Senior Games: The Senior World Championships will continue to host this one of a kind celebration promoting worldwide Peace, Health, Friendship, and as founder John Morgan reminds us, "Fun! Don't forget the Fun!"

Get ready for the thrill of the Huntsman World Senior Games, the globe's largest multi-sport event for athletes aged 50+. Hosting athletes from 87 nations since 1987, we're far from done. Our mission is to color the world with peace, health, and friendship - and we need your help. Invite your connections to join this life-changing experience. Help us reach those countries yet untouched by the Games' spirit. Together, we can show the world that active aging is not just a dream, but a vibrant reality in St. George, Utah, USA.
