Wasatch Microfluidics Announces Name Change to Carterra Inc. and New High Throughput SPR Instrument - Carterra
Submit
Contact Us
Submit
Products
Product Overview
Carterra Vega
Carterra Ultra
Carterra LSA XT
Carterra LSA
Sensor Chips
Kinetics Data Analysis Software TM
Epitope Data Analysis Software TM
AI, ML & In Silico Tools
Testimonials
Applications
Overview
High Throughput Kinetics
Epitope Binning
Fc-Gamma Receptor
GPCR and Transmembrane Proteins
Quantitation
Antibody Epitope Mapping
Therapeutic Areas
Antibody Formats
Proximity-Based Degraders
DNA Encoded Library (DEL)
Kinase Inhibitors and Fragment Screening
Vaccine Discovery and Development
Technology
Carterra HT-SPR™ Technology
SPR Overview
Attend SPR Camp
Testimonials
Frequently Asked Questions
Resources
Application Notes
Webinars and Videos
Podcasts
White Papers
Publications
Brochures & eBook
Posters
Symposia
2026
2025
2024
2023
2022
2019
About Us
Overview
Management Team
Board of Directors
Testimonials
Careers
News
Blog
Events
Contact Us
Support
Inquiries
Customer Login
Application Training Program
Attend SPR Camp
Technical Support Updates
Store
05.01.17
Wasatch Microfluidics Announces Name Change to Carterra Inc. and New High Throughput SPR Instrument
New corporate name and system reflect the evolution of the Company into a premier provider of biotherapeutic characterization tools.
Salt Lake City, Utah. Wasatch Microfluidics, Inc. today announced a corporate name change to Carterra, Inc. The new name is based on two core concepts: Car tography (mapping) and terra (worlds); literally meaning “mapping worlds.” This represents the Company’s high-speed, high-resolution label-free biosensor technologies, which are being used by leading pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies to thoroughly explore their large monoclonal antibody (mAb) libraries to discover novel biotherapeutic candidates.
In parallel, Carterra announced the development of a new fully integrated, high throughput mAb characterization platform, based on its patented microfluidics technology, SPRi detection and industry leading software tools. The Carterra LSA, available in Q1 2018, builds on the Company’s proven expertise in these technologies and will provide its pharma and biotech customers with the ability to rapidly screen large mAb libraries for binding kinetics and identify high-value epitopically diverse candidates. The Carterra LSA utilizes minimal amounts of valuable mAb samples, which, when coupled with its high throughput capabilities and simple experimental setup, increases biotherapeutics discovery efficiency, while reducing costs. Because an antibody’s epitope is innate and cannot be engineered, the Carterra LSA fills a critical unmet need in charting unique antibody space for drug discovery researchers searching for new biotherapeutics.
Key applications of the Carterra LSA include:
384 simultaneous label-free binding interactions;
384×384 epitope binning and mapping studies;
Kinetic screening of 1000’s of mAbs;
High throughput mAb quantitation;
All in 10% of the time and using 1% of the materials and consumables of other systems.
Carterra’s CEO, Josh Eckman, said, ” We are excited to announce our corporate name change and the development of the Carterra LSA instrument. Our new name reflects the success customers have already achieved by incorporating our technology into their workflows. The Carterra LSA is a game-changing platform that will empower biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies to explore new worlds in biotherapeutic drug discovery that were previously impossible to investigate. Researchers will no longer have to sacrifice speed for data quality, risking the loss of a promising candidate due to a low-resolution screening assay; or bias their selections by focusing on only a few mAbs. We enable high-resolution binding and epitopic information to be gathered on all candidates, so researchers can make well-informed decisions early in the drug discovery process where risks and costs can be significantly mitigated.”
Please visit our updated website at: www.carterra-bio.com
About Carterra Inc.
Mapping new worlds in biotherapeutics discovery
Carterra offers high throughput label-free analysis platforms for biomolecular interaction analysis. Founded in 2005 and based in Salt Lake City, UT, Carterra is developing the next generation of label-free biosensors for drug discovery and life science research.
For further information, please contact:
Josh Eckman
CEO
P: 844-642-7635 x700
Carterra, Inc.
info@carterra-bio.com
www.carterra-bio.com
Get the Latest to Your Inbox
First Name (Required)
Last Name (Required)
Email (Required)
CAPTCHA
Submit
Upcoming Events
09.28.26 - 10.01.26
Discovery on Target – 2026
10.14.26 - 10.15.26
ELRIG’s Drug Discovery 2026
10.19.26 - 10.21.26
World Vaccine Congress Europe – 2026
11.17.26 - 11.19.26
PEGS Europe – 2026
Resources
Press Release
Leerink Partners Report Names Carterra a Core Enabler of the $7B “Lab-in-the-Loop” Antibody Discovery Market
Press Release
William Blair Analysts Name Carterra a Winner in Life Science Tools for Enabling AI Drug Discovery at Unprecedented Scale
Publication
William Blair: From Code to Clinic How AI Is (and Isn’t) Rewriting the Life of a Drug
Publication
Cell Reports: Human Neutralizing Antibodies Targeting the Measles Virus Hemagglutinin and Fusion Surface Proteins
Publication
Journal of Medicinal Chemistry: On-DNA Binder Confirmation: Increasing Confidence in DEL Hits
825 N. 300 W. Ste. C309
Salt Lake City, UT 84103
Ph: (844) 642-7635
questions@carterra-bio.com
Products
Technology
About Us
News
Events
Resources
Blog
Contact
Applications
AI, ML and Synthetic Biology Tools
Kinetics TM Software
Epitope TM Analysis Software for Protein:Protein Interactions
Advanced SPR Platform for High Throughput Kinetics Screening
Epitope Binning
Quantitation
GPCR and Transmembrane Proteins
Proximity-Based Degraders
DNA Encoded Library (DEL) Compounds
Vaccine Discovery and Development
&copy; 2026 Carterra, Inc. All rights reserved. Unless otherwise noted, Carterra, the Carterra Logo and all other trademarks are property of Carterra, Inc.
Privacy Policy
Website by Metropolis Creative
