Carterra: High Throughput Antibody Screening & Characterization
Submit
Contact Us
Submit
Products
Product Overview
Carterra Vega
Carterra Ultra
Carterra LSA XT
Carterra LSA
Sensor Chips
Kinetics Data Analysis Software TM
Epitope Data Analysis Software TM
AI, ML & In Silico Tools
Testimonials
Applications
Overview
High Throughput Kinetics
Epitope Binning
Fc-Gamma Receptor
GPCR and Transmembrane Proteins
Quantitation
Antibody Epitope Mapping
Therapeutic Areas
Antibody Formats
Proximity-Based Degraders
DNA Encoded Library (DEL)
Kinase Inhibitors and Fragment Screening
Vaccine Discovery and Development
Technology
Carterra HT-SPR™ Technology
SPR Overview
Attend SPR Camp
Testimonials
Frequently Asked Questions
Resources
Application Notes
Webinars and Videos
Podcasts
White Papers
Publications
Brochures & eBook
Posters
Symposia
2026
2025
2024
2023
2022
2019
About Us
Overview
Management Team
Board of Directors
Testimonials
Careers
News
Blog
Events
Contact Us
Support
Inquiries
Customer Login
Application Training Program
Attend SPR Camp
Technical Support Updates
Store
Meet
Carterra Vega
Highlights:
Carterra Vega screens >20,000 compounds a day
48-channels of SPR in parallel
Carterra Vega provides a flexible assay format
Unrivaled speed for parallel analyte kinetics and array-based analysis
Carterra Vega turns a week of work into less than a day
Optional robot for 24/7 unattended operation
Learn More
Screen More Molecules Than Ever Before
Learn More Watch Carterra Vega Video
“We are pleased to have been a Key Opinion Leader (KOL) during the development of this fantastic parallel 48-channel SPR platform. The Carterra Vega will enable us to screen larger libraries faster and allow our researchers to run a greater number of screening and characterization projects, increasing our labs’ efficiency.”
Director of Biophysics
A Top 10 Pharmaceutical Company
Watch Video:
Introducing the Carterra Vega for massively parallel screening of large and small molecule binding.
Carterra’s high-throughput biology solutions advance AI/ML.
Learn More
This is what high throughput kinetics looks like .
Here’s what you can achieve with the highest-throughput SPR platforms on the market:
Carterra Vega with the plate loading robot delivers >20,000 analyte injections per day – fully unattended
Carterra Ultra collects up to 48 of these panels a day giving you >4,600 analyte/ligand titrations in 24 hours. Obtain > 200,000 interactions per week in screening mode
LSA and LSA XT can test 1152 ligands against several antigens in one unattended run
Carterra’s platforms provide the benefits of high throughput while using < 10% of the sample required by other commercial SPR instruments
Learn More
This is what a high-res epitope binning looks like.
If you’re not binning or just binning 10s of antibodies at a time, you’re not finding out much about your epitope.
Bin up to 384 × 384 antibodies (Auto analysis of 150,000 sensorgrams)
Discover the Mechanism of Action quickly and reduce failures in development and the clinic
Obtain Intellectual Property rights and lock down features that differentiate your antibody from your competitors
Learn More
View some of our customer presentations
Therapeutic Areas
COVID-19
Infectious Diseases/Vaccines
Immuno-Oncology (IO)/Cancer
Pain
Auto-Immunity
Heart Disease
Antibody Formats
Discovery Platforms
Bispecifics
Antibody-Drug Conjugates
CAR-T Therapy
During our testing of the Carterra Ultra, we were able to screen a vast array of molecular interactions in parallel. We’re excited about this revolutionary new SPR platform as it will rapidly accelerate aspects of the drug discovery process by utilizing high-sensitivity biophysical characterization with unparalleled throughput.
Philip Schwartz, PhD, Drug Discovery Industry Leader
To match our capacity in generating antibody libraries, we use the Carterra LSA for screening and characterization. Its high throughput capabilities match our highly automated antibody production workflow and shift analytics upstream to the very start of our antibody production. We routinely generate binding kinetics on hundreds of clones in parallel, directly from crude antibody or purified samples using minimal sample.
Aaron Sato, PhD, Chief Scientific Officer, Biopharma, Twist Bioscience
Epitope binning data produced on Carterra’s LSA gives us a detailed picture of the epitope landscape of our antibody libraries quickly using crude samples.
Bill Harriman, PhD, Vice President, Antibody Discovery Services, Ligand Pharmaceuticals
The Carterra technology…gave us the ability to perform very sensitive high-throughput full-kinetic analysis of unpurified bacterial extracts.
Raphael Levy, PhD, Director, Antibody Engineering, LakePharma
The LSA has the throughput to test large numbers of antibodies quickly, and is really good at epitope binning, which other systems do not seem to do as well.
James Love, PhD, Chief Operations Officer, The Institute for Protein Innovation
Carterra’s LSA provides the greatest epitope binning capacity available in the biosensor space and it is enabling a paradigm shift here. We know a lot more, sooner, and that makes us more efficient and more productive.
Christine Bee, PhD, Biophysicist, Large Pharmaceutical Company
Our LSA is up and running. The first install in Washington State! We’re excited to use it to speed up our therapeutic discovery process.
Ashok Bandaranayake, PhD, Director of Immunology and Automation, Protein Therapeutics Program, Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center
The Carterra LSA provides a significant increase in throughput for accurate determination of binding kinetics and affinities to help make lead choices much earlier in the discovery process.
Scott L. Klakamp, PhD
We recently joined the Carterra family and installed our LSA…. As the main user of this instrument, I must admit that LSA is a sensitive instrument with many potential applications…your team has done a wonderful job!
Hui Zhou, PhD, Senior Scientist, LinkedUp Bioscience
Want to Learn More?
Speak to a Carterra Scientist
News & Events
News
07.27.26
Leerink Partners Report Names Carterra a Core Enabler of the $7B “Lab-in-the-Loop” Antibody Discovery Market
Read More
Webinars
Massively Parallel SPR Based Fragment Screening on Ligand Arrays
Watch Webinar
Publications
Parallel Measurements of Hundreds of TCR/pMHC Affinities Using The Carterra Surface Plasmon Resonance Technology
View
Get the Latest to Your Inbox
First Name (Required)
Last Name (Required)
Email (Required)
CAPTCHA
Submit
825 N. 300 W. Ste. C309
Salt Lake City, UT 84103
Ph: (844) 642-7635
questions@carterra-bio.com
Products
Technology
About Us
News
Events
Resources
Blog
Contact
Applications
AI, ML and Synthetic Biology Tools
Kinetics TM Software
Epitope TM Analysis Software for Protein:Protein Interactions
Advanced SPR Platform for High Throughput Kinetics Screening
Epitope Binning
Quantitation
GPCR and Transmembrane Proteins
Proximity-Based Degraders
DNA Encoded Library (DEL) Compounds
Vaccine Discovery and Development
&copy; 2026 Carterra, Inc. All rights reserved. Unless otherwise noted, Carterra, the Carterra Logo and all other trademarks are property of Carterra, Inc.
Privacy Policy
Website by Metropolis Creative
