After decades of work, no-kill is within reach, thanks to you | Best Friends Animal Society
Skip to main content
Tertiary Menu
Who We Are
Pet Memorials
Locations
Shop
En Español
Search Icon
Donations Menu
Donate
Monthly
In Memory
In Honor
Workplace
DAF
Header Menu
Saving Shelter Animals
The Sanctuary
How You Can Help
Stories
Adopt
Ways to Give
|
After decades of work, no-kill is within reach, thanks to you
2 out of every 3 shelters are now no-kill, and that number is growing.
No-kill has become the norm for animal shelters across the U.S., and more shelters are committed to ending the killing of dogs and cats than ever before. Because of your help, nearly 4 million cats and dogs were saved in U.S. shelters in 2024 alone, which is an incredible accomplishment.
But there are still more animals to be saved. Every 90 seconds, a dog or cat is killed in our nation’s shelters just because they don’t have a safe place to call home.
Our commitment to saving more lives has never been stronger. We’ve reached the tipping point for pets in America, and there is no turning back. Together, with your help, we can ensure that we create a safer future for pets everywhere.
Image
Julie Castle's Blog
AI is already changing the field. Here's where Best Friends stands
“AI is opening up avenues for lifesaving that not even a year ago might have seemed like a pipe dream.” Read Julie's full blog post
— Julie Castle
Best Friends Chief Executive Officer
The future has never looked brighter for America’s pets
We set a bold goal in 2016 to achieve no-kill by 2025. If that seemed like a lofty goal, that’s because it was. But big goals help us push past boundaries in ways we never dreamed possible. And now, we’re closer than ever to reaching no-kill nationwide.
In 2016, when we set the goal to achieve no-kill nationwide by 2025, over 1 million cats and dogs were killed in shelters. Now, thanks to passionate animal lovers like you, that number dropped to around 425,000 pets in 2024.
Our commitment to saving lives is stronger than ever. Through fires, floods, and a worldwide pandemic, we’ve kept our lifesaving mission moving forward, making deep investments and creating innovative programs to help even more animals across the country.
Now more than ever, it’s time to use this lifesaving momentum and keep the needle moving forward for homeless pets. Together, we’ve saved so many lives. And together, we can continue to save so many more.
How You Can Help
Achieving no-kill nationwide starts with you
Every action you take for homeless pets saves lives.
Since 2016, when we committed to achieving no-kill nationwide, we’ve made incredible progress for homeless pets. Today, we’re closer than ever to ending the killing of dogs and cats in shelters for good.
You are an essential part of this lifesaving work. Every action you take for homeless pets in your community helps to save lives and bring the nation closer to no-kill.
The country is closer than ever to becoming no-kill, but there’s still vital work ahead to ensure that every state, county, and community embraces lifesaving as the standard for animals.
Is Your Community No-Kill?
Help your local animal shelter or rescue group
At Best Friends, our goal is to get more dogs and cats out of shelters and into homes and make every shelter in America no-kill. Each and every one of these shelters needs caring people like you to adopt, foster, donate, volunteer, and advocate to help save the lives of pets in your community.
When you give us your email address, we'll send you a list of shelters where you live and share more about how you can help save the lives of homeless pets.
Find an animal shelter or rescue group near you today:
Name:
First Name
Last Name
Email Address:
Zip Code:
Bring Love Home Subscription
Find Shelters Near You
Adopt
When you adopt a pet from a rescue group or animal shelter instead of buying from a breeder or puppy mill, you’re providing a lifesaving second chance.
Adopt Near Me
Join
We believe every pet deserves a home, whether it’s a house with a fenced yard, a cozy apartment, or a safe outdoor space for community cats. Do you agree?
I Agree
Donate
Your gift will go straight to work saving the lives of homeless pets around the country by providing them with the help and healing they need to find loving homes.
Make a Gift
Looking for more ways to help?
Every action you take for homeless pets helps to save their lives and gets the country closer to no-kill; we’ll show you how.
Help save animals in your community
Let's be friends!
When you give us your email address we'll send you emails with inspiring stories and ways to make a difference for animals in your community and around the U.S.
Name
First Name
Last Name
Email
Bring Love Home Subscription
Submit
Facebook
Instagram
TikTok
Tracking our lifesaving progress with data
Knowing where we stand not only helps determine the best way to move forward, but it also helps track the progress we're making together.
See the data »
Our priorities: A road map to reaching no-kill
To give our most faithful companions the second chances they deserve, we're using our expertise to take the entire country to no-kill.
See our priorities »
About Best Friends Animal Society
Best Friends is working to end the killing of dogs and cats in U.S. shelters in part by getting more pets out of shelters and into loving homes.
We’ve come a long way since the first known city reached no-kill in 1994, and now we’re closer than ever to making the entire country no-kill. Of the roughly 3,900 shelters operating in America today, 1,300 of them are not yet no-kill, but nearly half are close with 100 or fewer additional pets to be saved, and we know what to do to get them there.
Best Friends is committed to working with passionate people like you to save homeless pets through adoption, volunteering, fostering, and advocacy. In addition to our pet adoption centers around the U.S, we also founded and run the nation's largest no-kill sanctuary for companion animals.
Working together, we can save homeless pets in our communities and secure a better future for our best friends. Together, we will bring the whole country to no-kill.
Together, we can Save Them All.
Best Friends, a 501(c)(3) nonprofit organization (tax ID# 23-7147797), operates the nation’s largest sanctuary for homeless animals and provides adoption, spay/neuter, and educational programs.
Save Them All
Stay in touch with the animals via email updates, as they get second chances at happy homes.
Bring Love Home Subscription
Subscribe
Social Menu
Best Friends Animal Society Facebook Page
Best Friends Animal Society Instagram Page
Best Friends Animal Society Pinterest Page
Best Friends Animal Society LinkedIn Page
Best Friends Animal Society Threads Page
Best Friends Animal Society YouTube Channel
Best Friends Animal Society TikTok Page
Best Friends Animal Society Twitch Channel
Best Friends Animal Society Discord
Sections
Saving Shelter Animals
The Sanctuary
Act for Animals
Stories
Adopt
Ways to Give
Who We Are
Pet Care
Locations
Shop
En Español
How You Can Help
Adopt
Donate
Foster
Learn with Best Friends
Pet Memorials
Take Action
Volunteer
Work at Best Friends
Programs
Houston
Los Angeles
New York City
Northwest Arkansas
Salt Lake City
Mobile Apps
Best Friends Animal Sanctuary App
Experience the magic of the Sanctuary during your visit to Kanab, Utah or from your couch.
Other Best Friends Sites
Best Friends Roadhouse and Mercantile
Best Friends Store
Network Partners
Strut Your Mutt
About
Careers
Internships
For the Media
FAQs
Position Statements
Financial Information
In the Spotlight
As seen on National Geographic’s DogTown and the CW's Dog Town USA. And the inspiration behind the critically acclaimed film, The Champions .
We're proud to be one of the 2024 Top Workplaces, and honored to be recognized for our innovative work to take the entire country no-kill.
Image
Image
Image
Image
Image
Image
Legal Menu
Contact Us
Data Sharing Request
Privacy Policy
Terms & Conditions
© 2026 Best Friends Animal Society. All Rights Reserved.
