2026 dōTERRA Opportunity and Earnings Disclosure Summary.

Becoming a Wellness Advocate:
What should I know about the dōTERRA Business Opportunity and Earnings?

What should I know about this
business opportunity?
A dōTERRA business is an opportunity to earn
modest supplemental income. Like all businesses,
some succeed while others do not. There are no
guarantees that you will earn money. Building a
successful dōTERRA business takes time, effort, and
skill, and expenses may be incurred—for example,
the cost of products, marketing materials, training,
events, and other business expenses. These costs
vary by individual and may reduce or exceed any
commissions earned. Most Wellness Advocates start
by working part-time and selling to people in their
network. Participation is always optional. You are not
required to purchase large amounts of inventory,
and dōTERRA offers a generous refund policy.

What should I know about
dōTERRA’s business model?
dōTERRA is a product-driven company
supported by a direct sales model. A direct
sales business has many advantages, including
schedule flexibility and low overhead costs.
The majority of new dōTERRA U.S. customers—
approximately 93%—are Wholesale and Retail
customers who purchase products at wholesale
or retail prices for personal use. This creates an
exceptionally stable customer base for those
who choose to build a dōTERRA business.
dōTERRA distributors, known as a Wellness
Advocates, in addition to purchasing products
at wholesale prices for their own use, can also
earn money through their business.

2026 dōTERRA Opportunity and Earnings Disclosure Summary.

Top 50%: Annual Median: $435 Annual Average: $1,453

Top 10%: Annual Median: $2,260 Annual Average: $5,601

Top 1%: Annual Median: $13,928 Annual Average: $32,384

Top 50%: Annual Median: $244 Annual Average: $3,840

Top 10%: Annual Median: $3,918 Annual Average: $18,013

Top 1%: Annual Median: $66,067 Annual Average: $129,857

How can I earn money?
As a Wellness Advocate, you can earn money through your dōTERRA business in two ways. First, you
can sell the products you bought at wholesale prices to others. Wholesale prices average 25% below
suggested retail prices. Second, you can earn commissions when customers in your network purchase
products from dōTERRA. Commissions are based on product sales and not recruiting or sponsoring alone.
The role you play of educating those customers on the benefits of the products is vital.

How much could I make annually?
Although Wellness Advocates can earn commissions, most are like other customers and do not build a
business. For this disclosure, an “active Wellness Advocate” is one who has purchased product, enrolled
a new Wellness Advocate or Wholesale Customer, or earned a commission during the year. In 2025,
approximately 58% of U.S. active Wellness Advocates did not earn any commissions from dōTERRA.
About 42% earned commissions, and the following shows their annual commissions before expenses.

How do I become a Wellness Advocate?
There are two ways to become a Wellness Advocate:

1. Connect with an existing Wellness Advocate who can teach you about dōTERRA
products and get you set up.

2. If you don’t know any Wellness Advocates, you can visit doterra.com and follow
the link to become a Wellness Advocate.

What if I choose to leave dōTERRA?
You can cancel your dōTERRA distributorship at any time. Within 30 days of a
purchase, you can return unopened products for a full refund. You can also receive
a 90% refund for products purchased within a year.

Please contact (800) 411-8151 or visit www.doterra.com for more information.

First Year Active Wellness Advocates Who Earned Commission (3,750)

All Other Active Wellness Advocates Who Earned Commission (about 111,000)

A dōTERRA business provides distributors an opportunity to earn modest supplemental income. The top 2% of active Wellness
Advocates hold the rank of Silver, Gold, Platinum, Diamond, Blue Diamond, and Presidential Diamond. Presidential Diamonds
have averaged over 14 years with dōTERRA, with the longest being 17 years and the shortest approximately 2 years.
