WHEN RECORDED, PLEASE RETURN TO:

Nicole Cottle
450 Simmons Way
Suite 400
Kaysville UT 84037

Tax Parcel Nos. (See Exhibit A)
(Space above for Recorder’s use only)


                                STRATOS PROJECT AREA
                           MASTER DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT

                                        By and Between

                O’LEARY DIGITAL UTAH DEVELOPMENT COMPANY, LLC

                                              and

                 MILITARY INSTALLATION DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY


                                         April 24, 2026




                                               1
            STRATOS PROJECT AREA MASTER DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT

        THIS STRATOS PROJECT AREA MASTER DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT (“Agreement”)
is made and entered as of the 24th day of April 2026 (“Effective Date”) by and between the MILITARY
INSTALLATION DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY, a political subdivision of the State of Utah
(“MIDA”), and O’LEARY DIGITAL UTAH DEVELOPMENT COMPANY, a Utah limited liability
Company (“Master Developer”), The Master Developer and MIDA may hereinafter be referred to
individually as a “Party” and collectively as the “Parties.”

                                           BACKGROUND

   A. Pursuant to Utah Code Ann. §63H-1-101, et. seq., as amended (the “MIDA Act”), MIDA is an
      “independent, nonprofit, separate body corporate and politic, with perpetual succession and
      statewide jurisdiction, whose purpose is to facilitate the development of land within a project area
      or on military land associated with a project area.”

   B. Pursuant to the MIDA Act, MIDA created the Stratos Project Area that includes both private land
      and military land located in the unincorporated area of Box Elder County and other military land
      associated with the Stratos Project Area. As used in this Agreement “Project Area” refers only to
      the private land portion of the Stratos Project Area. The purpose of creating the Project Area is to
      develop state-of-the-art energy and hyperscale data centers and advanced manufacturing facilities,
      as well as promoting high quality residential and commercial development (“Development
      Project”) that will provide economic benefits and opportunities to Box Elder County (“County”)
      and fund military land development and other State projects. The Master Developer is branding
      and marketing the Development Project as “Wonder Valley”.

   C. Pursuant to the MIDA Act, MIDA has “exclusive police power within a project area to the same
      extent as though the authority were a municipality, including the collection of regulatory fees,” and
      neither MIDA nor any land included in a project area is subject to “Title 17, Chapter 27a, County
      Land Use, Development and Management Act” (“CLUDMA”), nor is MIDA or any such land
      subject to “ordinances or regulations of a county or municipality including those relating to land
      use, health, business license, or franchise” (collectively referred to herein as “MIDA’s Police
      Powers”).

   D. This Agreement is contingent upon the Master Developer (or an affiliated entity) obtaining legal
      title to real property, for which the Master Developer is applying for a Master Development Plan
      approval, located in unincorporated Box Elder County, as legally described in Exhibit A and
      depicted on Exhibit A-1 attached hereto and on the Master Developer constructing and generating
      the minimum amount of energy described in this Agreement.

   E. In order to be nationally competitive and to ensure that Public Facilities are constructed by the
      Master Developer at no cost to Box Elder County (“County”), MIDA will return certain increased
      tax revenues resulting from the Development Project to the Master Developer as provided in this
      Agreement.

   F. MIDA entered into the Interlocal Cooperation Agreement with Box Elder County effective as of
      April 24, 2026 (the “County Interlocal Agreement”) following all requirements of the MIDA Act
      and the Utah Interlocal Cooperation Act, Utah Code Ann. §11-13-101 et. seq. The County
      Interlocal Agreement, among other things, establishes how MIDA will provide funding to the
      County for the provision of municipal services and for general operation of the County
      (“Municipal Revenue Fund”) and set forth how the Municipal Revenue Fund will be used by the


                                                    I
          County. The County Interlocal Agreement is attached as Exhibit B hereto.

     G. This Agreement is intended to prioritize the County’s receipt of the funding provided for in the
        County Interlocal Agreement; ensure the expected funding of both MIDA’s statewide military
        purpose and the State’s purposes; and, to provide the Master Developer with certainty as to the land
        uses allowed and its ability to develop in a competitive, cost-effective, and efficient manner while
        mitigating the impacts on the County residents and its ranching environment.

     H. Pursuant to the MIDA Act, MIDA adopted the Stratos Project Area Standards and Guidelines
        (“Standards”) and in the Standards and the County Interlocal Agreement a Development Review
        Committee (“DRC”) is created. The Standards sets forth the role of the DRC with respect to various
        land use recommendations and approvals required in connection with the development of the
        Project Area. The Standards are attached as Exhibit C.

     I.   MIDA, acting pursuant to MIDA’s Police Powers, and in furtherance of its land use policies, goals,
          objectives, and the Standards, in the exercise of its discretion, has elected to approve and enter into
          this Agreement with the Master Developer pertaining to the development of Wonder Valley in the
          Project Area.

        NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual covenants contained herein, and other good
and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which is hereby conclusively acknowledged,
MIDA, the Master Developer hereby agree to the following:

                                        TERMS AND CONDITIONS

1.        DEFINITIONS. Capitalized terms used in this Agreement and not otherwise defined herein shall
          have the meanings set forth in the County Interlocal Agreement, the Standards, and the MIDA Act.

2.        TERM. The term of this Agreement (as it may be extended hereunder, (the “Term”) shall
          commence upon the Effective Date and continue for a period of thirty (30) years.

3.        VESTED RIGHTS.

          a. Vested Rights; Generally. To the maximum extent permissible under the laws of Utah and the
             United States and at equity, the MIDA and Master Developer intend that this Agreement grants
             Master Developer all rights to develop the Project Area with the uses listed in the Standards in
             fulfillment of this Agreement and Applicable Law, except as specifically provided herein. The
             Parties intend that the rights granted to the Master Developer under this Agreement are
             contractual and also those rights that exist under statute, common law and at equity
             (collectively, the “Vested Rights”).

          b. Reserved Legislative Powers. Subject to the Master Developer’s Vested Rights under this
             Agreement, nothing in this Agreement shall limit the future exercise of the police power by
             MIDA in enacting zoning, subdivision, development, transportation, environmental, open
             space, and related land use plans, policies, ordinances, standards, guidelines, and regulations
             after the Acceptance Date of this Agreement. Notwithstanding the retained power of MIDA to
             enact such legislation under its police power, such legislation shall not modify Master
             Developer's rights as set forth herein unless facts and circumstances are present which meet the
             exceptions to the vested rights doctrine as set forth in Western Land Equities, Inc. v. City of
             Logan, 617 P.2d 388 (Utah 1980), as further clarified in Utah Code Ann. 17-27a-508, or any
             other exception or basis for inapplicability of the doctrine of vested rights, recognized under
                                                        2
4912-6635-3314, v. 1
              state or federal law.

         c. Applicable Law. The rules, regulations, official policies, standards and specifications
            applicable to the development of the Project Area (the "Applicable Law"), including rules,
            regulations, official policies, standards, specifications, the Standards and other applicable
            MIDA ordinances, resolutions, state law, and federal law in effect as of the Effective Date.
            Notwithstanding the foregoing, this Agreement is also subject to MIDA's Future Laws
            including: (a) MIDA's Future Laws that are updates or amendments to existing building,
            plumbing, mechanical, electrical, dangerous buildings, or similar construction or safety related
            codes, such as the International Building Code, the APWA Specifications, AAHSTO
            Standards, the Manual of Uniform Traffic Control Devices or similar standards that are
            generated by a nationally or statewide recognized construction/safety organization or required
            to meet legitimate concerns related to public health, safety or welfare unless, and only to the
            extent that facts and circumstances are present which meet the exceptions to the vested rights
            doctrine as described in Section 3(b); (b) MIDA's Future Laws that are health and
            environmental standards based on MIDA's obligations to comply with Federal or State
            environmental laws, and only to the extent that facts and circumstances are present which meet
            the exceptions to the vested rights doctrine as described in Section 3(b); (c) Taxes, or
            modifications thereto, so long as such taxes are lawfully imposed and charged uniformly by
            MIDA to all properties, applications and Persons similarly situated; (d) Changes to the amounts
            of fees (but not changes to the times provided in the Applicable Laws for the imposition or
            collection of such fees) for the processing of Development Applications that are generally
            applicable to all development within MIDA's jurisdiction (or a portion of the Project Area as
            specified in the lawfully adopted fee schedule) and which are lawfully adopted pursuant to
            State law.

         d. Federal Law. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, this Agreement shall not
            preclude the application of changes in laws, regulations, plans, or policies, to the extent that
            such changes are specifically mandated and required by changes in federal laws or regulations
            ("Changes in the Law") applicable to the Project Area. In the event the Changes in the Law
            prevent or preclude compliance with one or more provisions of this Agreement, such provisions
            of this Agreement shall be modified or suspended, or performance thereof delayed, as may be
            necessary, to comply with the Changes in the Law.

         e. Applications Under MIDA's Future Laws. Without waiving any rights granted or benefits
            imparted by this Agreement, Master Developer may at any time, choose to submit a
            Development Application for some or all of the Project Area under MIDA's Future Laws in
            effect at the time of a development application. Except as otherwise agreed by MIDA and the
            Master Developer, any development application filed for consideration under MIDA's Future
            Laws shall be governed by all portions of MIDA's Future Laws related to the development
            application. The election by Master Developer at any time to submit a development application
            under MIDA's Future Laws shall not be construed to prevent or limit Master Developer from
            submitting other development applications relying on the Applicable Laws.

         f.   Exclusion from Moratoria. The Project Area shall be excluded from any moratorium adopted
              pursuant to Applicable Law unless such moratorium is found on the record by the MIDA Board
              to be necessary to avoid jeopardizing a compelling, countervailing public interest.

         g. Vesting After Term. Unless otherwise agreed by the Parties, the Master Developer vested
            interest(s) and right(s) set forth in this Agreement expire at the end of the Term, or upon
            termination of this Agreement in accordance with the terms hereof. MIDA agrees to process
                                                     3
4912-6635-3314, v. 1
              complete submissions with reasonable diligence and in accordance with the Standards. Upon
              the expiration or termination of this Agreement, for any reason, the obligations accruing after
              such termination, but none of the Master Development Plans, Site Plans, Subdivision Plats,
              Infrastructure Construction Plans, approved licenses, approved building permits, letters of
              completion, or certificates of occupancy granted prior to the expiration of this Agreement may
              be rescinded or limited in any manner due to the expiration or termination of this Agreement.
              Easements, maintenance requirements, infrastructure improvement obligations, or other
              agreements intended to run with the land, including obligations that were based upon the
              approvals granted pursuant to this Agreement or Applicable Law, shall not expire upon
              expiration or termination of this Agreement.

         h. Master Developer’s Vesting and Approval Rights Over Certain Development.

              i.   MIDA acknowledges that the Master Developer brought the Development Project to
                   MIDA, contracted with all of the landowners, secured the landowners’ consent to the
                   creation of the Project Area, has expended significant funds to bring the Development
                   Project to fruition, and will further expend hundreds of millions of dollars more just to
                   development Wonder Valley Phase 1.

              ii. When the Master Developer fulfills its obligation to develop Wonder Valley Phase 1,
                  Master Developer shall be fully vested, as provided in this Section, and shall have exclusive
                  rights to development Energy Generation Facilities, Data Center Campuses, and Advanced
                  Manufacturing facilities in the Project Area.

              iii. The Master Developer may consent to another person developing one of the uses described
                   in Subsection 3(h)(ii) by providing written notice to MIDA of its consent. Such consent
                   shall not be unreasonably withheld, if the Master Developer in unable or unwilling to
                   develop such uses in a reasonable amount of time, given national and Utah market and
                   financial conditions.

4.       PHASING. The Parties acknowledge that the most efficient and economic development of the
         Project Area depends on numerous factors, such as permitting, market orientation and demand,
         interest rates, competition, and other factors. The Master Developer may, in their discretion and in
         conformity with the obligations set forth herein, develop the Project Area in phases. The timing,
         sequencing, relative size and phasing of development of the various phases in the Project Area shall
         be as determined by the Master Developer in its sole subjective business judgment and discretion;
         provided that, in developing each phase, Master Developer shall ensure the logical extension of
         Public Facilities through each phase, all in conformance with the requirements of this Agreement,
         the Standards, and the requirements imposed by MIDA in connection with specific phase approvals
         pursuant to the Standards.

         a. MDP Submission For Each Phase. The Parties agree that the Master Developer shall obtain a
            Master Development Plan for each phase of the Development Project prior to Administrative
            Approvals with respect to each phase.

         b. Wonder Valley Phase 1. The Master Developer expressly agree that within the first five (5)
            years of the Effective Date, they will submit for approval the Wonder Valley Phase 1 Plan and
            complete construction of the Energy Facility to be located in the Hansel Valley to the point that
            it is capable of producing at least three (3) Gigawatts of electricity (“Phase 1”). Each phase
            must comply with the requirements of the Standards and any applicable State or Federal
            approvals or permits. MIDA and the Master Developer may enter into a phase-specific
                                                       4
4912-6635-3314, v. 1
              development agreement with respect to a given phase contemporaneously with MIDA's
              approval of each such phase.

5.       LAND USE FEES.

         a. MIDA Processed Land Use Applications, Payment Of Fees. In connection with MIDA's
            processing of any land use application for any given phase, the Master Developer agree to pay
            MIDA its actual cost-based administrative, review, and inspection fees as allowed to be
            collected under Applicable Law. MIDA agrees to process, reasonably consider, and complete
            any land use development application submitted by the Master Developer in a timely manner
            in accordance with the Standards.

         b. MIDA Processed Grading And Infrastructure Permit Fees; Payment Of Fees. In connection
            with MIDA's processing of any grading or infrastructure development application the Master
            Developer agree to pay MIDA administrative, review and inspection fees pursuant the
            reasonable executive orders and cost-based fee schedules lawfully issued by MIDA pursuant
            thereto, as the same may be adjusted from time-to-time. MIDA agrees that any executive orders
            and cost-based fee schedules shall be approved in a form that prohibits double-billing or
            duplicative fees and limits any percentage-based fee or deposit to not more than two and one-
            half percent (2.5%) of the grading or infrastructure improvement value.

         c. Service Districts, Fees And Charges. Municipal services will be provided by Box Elder County
            pursuant to the County Interlocal Agreement. As provided in the County Interlocal Agreement
            Service Districts may be created to provide the requisite services The Master Developer agree
            to pay any and all generally applicable and uniformly applied fees for the development of the
            Project Area.

         d. Permitting And Inspection Services; Payment Of Fees. MIDA agrees to process and complete
            any permit review or required inspection requested by the Master Developer in a timely manner
            in accordance with the Standards. The Master Developer agree to pay any and all fees lawfully
            imposed by MIDA for Permitting and Inspection Services, including (but not limited to) fees
            for plan check and engineering review as described in MIDA executive orders for the same.
            Pursuant to such executive orders, unless otherwise agreed by MIDA and the Master
            Developer, MIDA agrees that it shall not charge more than the reasonable costs of providing
            such services in compliance with Applicable Law.

6.       IMPROVEMENTS AND MAINTENANCE.

         a. Construction Or Dedication Of Phase-Specific Improvements. Infrastructure improvements
            associated with each phase shall be completed by the Master Developer in conformance with
            this Agreement, and will be delineated on any Subdivision Plat or Site Plan approval therefore
            ("Phase-Specific Improvements"). Phase-Specific Improvements include: (i) all roads and
            other improvements within the road rights-of-way within the phase, street lighting, signage
            (including directional/information components), and wet and dry utilities within such rights-
            of-way, within the perimeter or boundary of the applicable phase; (ii) all emergency and
            secondary access to the phase boundary, and unless such emergency or secondary access has
            been previously completed by others; (iii) utility services within the perimeter or boundary of
            the phase; (iv) dedication and construction of trails shown on the Subdivision Plat or Site Plan
            for the phase; (v) dedication, conveyance or other action to manage the Open Space lying
            within the Subdivision Plat or Site Plan for the phase; (vi) landscaping of Common Areas
            within the phase; and (vii) all other improvements or dedications that are required within the
                                                     5
4912-6635-3314, v. 1
              phase or adjacent to the phase required by the Standards. Phase-Specific Improvements shall
              be inspected and accepted by MIDA (or a Reviewer appointed or approved by MIDA) in
              writing prior to the issuance of the first Certificate of Occupancy or Letter of Completion (if
              required) within that phase (which reviews shall be completed by MIDA in the exercise of its
              administrative discretion exercised consistently with the provisions found in Utah Code Ann.
              §17-27a-604.5. Issuance of a building permit does not waive any improvement requirements
              that are required under this Agreement.

         b. Maintenance Of Open Space, Trails And Common Areas. Public trails and open space within
            each phase shall be conveyed or otherwise dedicated to a non-profit entity or Service District,
            as determined by MIDA and the County and be maintained by such entity, in all respects,
            including but not limited to landscaping, irrigation, and weed control to the extent such open
            space is not intended to be left in its natural state; provided, however, the Master Developer or
            an owners association created by the Master Developer (“Owners Association”) may elect,
            from time-to-time to perform such maintenance. Except as provided below, the Master
            Developer shall maintain the Open Space (as applicable), private trails and common areas
            located within the Project Area but outside of a particular phase in all respects, including but
            not limited to landscaping, irrigation, and weed control.

         c. Detention Pond Maintenance. All detention ponds located within the Project Area but outside
            of a specific phase and constructed by the Master Developer will remain the property and
            responsibility of the Master Developer, applicable Owners Association, or a Service District
            created, in whole part, for the purpose of providing storm water detention services. The Master
            Developer, applicable Owners Association, or Service District shall be responsible for all
            inspection, maintenance, and repair of the detention areas and drainage swales leading to
            detention ponds constructed in connection with the phase. The Person responsible for such
            maintenance shall inspect applicable detention areas for erosion and any changes after every
            major storm event but at least monthly (weather permitting (i.e. inspections and maintenance
            do not occur during winter months)), including inspection of embankments for any visible signs
            of erosion, seepage, sloughing, sliding, or other instability. Outlet structures shall be inspected
            for flow obstructions, cracks, vandalism, or erosion. The maintenance and/or construction
            obligations of the Master Developer under this Section may be transferred to the applicable
            Owners Association or Service District, subject to execution of a Transfer Acknowledgment
            signed by the Master Developer, MIDA, and such Owners Association or Service District.
            Maintenance performed by the maintaining Person shall meet or exceed a standard of
            reasonableness and safety as established by MIDA and uniformly applied to other detention
            improvements within the MIDA Project Area.

7.       RUBY PIPELINE. The Master Developer may enter into an Agreement with TallGrass Energy to
         acquire the exclusive right to connect to the Ruby Pipeline to provide natural gas utility service to
         the Project Area.

8.       COMPLIANCE AND ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS.

         a. Standards Compliance. Development may not proceed until the Master Developer has
            demonstrated compliance with the applicable requirements of the Standards. Compliance with
            the applicable requirements of the Standards shall be demonstrated on a phase-by-phase basis
            in connection with the submission of, as applicable, an MDP, Subdivision Plat or Site Plan for
            a given phase.

         b. Noise Requirements. The Master Developer shall ensure that the development does not create
                                                       6
4912-6635-3314, v. 1
              excessive noise that disturbs the surrounding properties. This is of particular concern for a
              Compute Complex. The Master Developer shall use best practices and demonstrate to the DRC
              that it will use appropriate technology to mitigate the noise (e.g. acoustic barriers/walls,
              silencers/baffles, and “low noise” cooling tower models).

         c. Open Space. The Standards do not set forth a specific open space requirement. Phase-specific
            open space shall be shown on the Site Plan for the applicable phase and approved as part of the
            Site Plan. Where applicable, restrictions limiting the use of phase-specific open space to open
            space purposes and/or conservation purposes may be imposed pursuant to easement or other
            forms of deed restriction. Phase specific open space dedicated to recreational or other similar
            open space purposes shall be identified on the applicable Subdivision Plat, which may include
            restrictions set forth on the face thereof for a given phase or pursuant to a separate deed
            restriction or other instrument of record, provided that such deed restriction or other instrument
            of record allows for the Master Developer to make periodic adjustments of such designated
            open space areas as are needed to facilitate the development of the phase for conservation
            purposes. Open space may be preserved pursuant to its dedication to an Owners Association or
            such other method as the Master Developer may determine.

         d. Dark Sky Compliant. All phases are required to be Dark Sky Compliant. Each building permit
            and Site Plan application shall include a lighting plan that shows evidence that the proposed
            lighting fixtures and light sources comply with the Standards.

         e. Permitting for Energy Production Facilities; Nuclear Facilities. MIDA and the Master
            Developer acknowledge and understand that the Standards do not regulate the construction of
            energy production installations or nuclear facilities. The United States Nuclear Regulatory
            Commission holds exclusive authority for approving and licensing commercial nuclear power
            plants in Utah. In addition, the Utah Department of Environmental Quality (“UDEQ”) requires
            an approval order be issued prior to construction or modification of any emitting equipment,
            such as, but not limited to, a natural gas energy production facility. Accordingly, so long as the
            Master Developer or owner of such Energy Generation Facility has obtained the required
            approvals from all State and Federal regulatory agencies and the location of proposed regulated
            facilities are within the general areas identified on the MDA and Site Plan, the Master
            Developer may develop, install and construct such facilities in the Project Area without
            additional permitting approval from MIDA.

         f.   Gravel Pit and Mining Uses Allowed in Approved Zones. Within designated zones of the
              Project Area, as established in the Standards, Master Developer and MIDA agree that Mining
              Uses, including the extraction of critical resources, are allowed subject to approval by the State
              of Utah Division of Oil, Gas, and Mining, the Division of Waste Management and Radiation
              Control and the Public Lands Policy Coordinating Office and all other Applicable Laws.

         g. On Site Processing of Natural Materials; Concrete Batch Plants. The Master Developer may
            use naturally occurring materials located in the Project Area such as sand, gravel and rock, and
            may process such natural materials into construction materials such as aggregate, topsoil,
            concrete or asphalt for use in the construction of infrastructure, homes or other buildings or
            improvements located in the Project Area and for sale to and use on other locations outside the
            phase subject to compliance with the Design Standards and Applicable Laws.

         h. Construction Provisions; Free Range Agricultural Areas. The responsible Master Developer
            for each phase shall ensure that all roads under construction within “free range” agricultural
            grazing areas are permanently provided with fences to prevent automobile accidents and
                                                       7
4912-6635-3314, v. 1
              fatalities.

         i.   Law Enforcement; Additional Patrols During Construction. The Master Developer agrees that
              during construction, it will work with the Box Elder County Sheriff to ensure that extra patrol
              units are on duty to patrol all construction areas for each approved phase.

9.       SUBDIVISION APPROVALS. Development of some phases will require the property to be
         subdivided into one or more subdivision lots. MIDA agrees to process complete submissions as set
         forth in the Standards and submissions to the DRC with reasonable diligence and in accordance
         with the time frames set forth in the Standards. MIDA and Master Developer further agree that the
         subdivision approval process may occur on a phase-by-phase basis as follows:

         a. Plat Submission Requirements. Master Developer shall submit a Subdivision Plat application
            for a phase (the "Subdivision Plat") consistent with the provisions of the Standards including,
            if applicable, a Conceptual Subdivision Plat submission.

         b. МIDA Approval of Subdivision Plat. Upon submission of a complete Subdivision Plat
            application, each of the Reviewers, DRC and MIDA Board shall promptly review within the
            timeframes established in the Standards the Subdivision Plat application to determine
            compliance with the applicable requirements of the Standards and approve or deny such
            Subdivision Plat. The Master Developer acknowledges and agrees that prior to construction of
            any improvements pursuant to an approved Subdivision Plat, the Master Developer shall be
            required to provide each applicable governmental entity or utility the information required for
            each Public Facility to be constructed or installed in connection with or prior to the recordation
            of such Subdivision Plat. Upon recordation of the Subdivision Plat, each subdivided lot created
            by such Subdivision Plat shall be referred to herein as a "Development Lot."

         c. Conveyance by Transfer Deed. As provided in the Standards, to the extent that a conveyance
            is in anticipation or furtherance of future land use approvals and development of each phase in
            the Project Area, MIDA agrees that the Master Developer may convey portions of the Project
            Area by metes and bounds prior to recordation of a Subdivision Plat for such portions, and
            MIDA agrees, upon approval of the Executive Director or other land use authority designated
            by MIDA for such purpose, to execute such deeds of conveyance (each a "Transfer Deed") for
            the purposes of acknowledging only MIDA's consent to the conveyance by metes and bounds
            of the real property that is the subject of the applicable Transfer Deed.

10.      SITE PLAN APPROVAL. Development of each phase in the Project Area will require site plan
         approval ("Site Plan Approval") pursuant to the requirements the Standards. A phase Site Plan
         Approval may not be granted except with respect to a Development Lot; provided, however, that
         the Master Developer or may seek phase Site Plan Approval and Subdivision Plat approval for a
         given Development Lot on a concurrent basis. The phase Site Plan Approval process for each phase
         and/or Development Lot shall be as set forth in the Standards (each a "Site Plan"). Upon
         submission of a phase Site Plan, the DRC shall review the Site Plan's consistency with the
         applicable requirements of the Standards, as well as the applicable MDP and applicable Subdivision
         Plat, and approve or deny the same. The Site Plan shall demonstrate compliance with the Standards.
         By way of clarity, the purpose of a Site Plan is to show, to scale, the proposed uses and structures
         to be located on a parcel of land. The Site Plan is intended to show the significant features of the
         parcel to be developed, and how the uses relate to the surrounding area (developed, undeveloped
         or unknown). A Site Plan does not require the infrastructure, civil engineering or grading
         information for the site or the surrounding area and the location of specific items, like sprinkler
         heads and other incidental design elements and are not required to be shown at the level of detail
                                                      8
4912-6635-3314, v. 1
         or specificity required for a Building Permit. In some cases, the design of adjacent infrastructure
         improvements (e.g. roadways, utility infrastructure, etc.) will not be completed prior to the approval
         of a Site Plan and Site Plan approval should not be delayed for that information to become available.

11.      LETTER OF COMPLETION AND CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY.

         a. Letter of Completion. An Energy Generation Facility or Data Center Campus (collectively,
            “Compute Complex”) proposed to be located within the ET Zone will be issued a Letter of
            Completion upon completion of all improvements and structural components. A Certificate of
            Occupancy shall not be issued for any Energy Generation Facility or Data Center Campus.

         b. Certificate of Occupancy. All other facilities constructed will be issued a Certificate of
            Occupancy upon completion of all improvements and structural components.

12.      PROMPT TAX PAYMENTS. The Master Developer shall pay and contractually require all
         property buyers, tenants, or other operators (“Taxpayer”) to pay in a timely manner all applicable
         taxes, assessments, and fees.

         a. Applicable Taxes and Assessments. The taxes include all state and local sales and use taxes,
            the municipal energy tax (“MET”), transient room taxes, telephone tax, and real and personal
            property taxes (“Property Taxes”). If assessment bonds are issued then the Master Developer
            or subsequent land buyers may be subject to certain assessments (“Assessments”).

         b. Right to Protest. However, the Taxpayer shall have the right to protest or appeal the amount of
            assessed taxable value levied against its property by the Box Elder County Assessor, State Tax
            Commission or any lawful entity authorized by law to determine the assessed taxable value
            against such property or any portion thereof in the same manner as any other taxpayer as
            provided by law, so long as the Property Taxes are paid under protest. The Master Developer
            shall, however, notify MIDA in writing within thirty (30) calendar days after such Master
            Developer's filing of any protest or appeal to such assessment determination which could
            impact the taxable value of such property, and provide copies to MIDA of any protest or appeal
            of such assessment and information submitted as part of the protest or appeal. In addition, such
            Taxpayer shall give MIDA written notice at least fifteen (15) calendar days prior to the date on
            which such protest or appeal is to be heard. MIDA shall have the right, without objection by
            such Taxpayer, to appear at the time and date of such protest or appeal and to present oral or
            written information or evidence in support of or objection to the amount of assessment which
            should or should not be assessed against such property and the amount of MIDA's indebtedness
            or outstanding obligations.

         c. MIDA’s Payment Obligation Suspended. MIDA's obligation to reimburse the Master
            Developer or applicable Taxpayer are suspended while Property Taxes or other taxes, fees, or
            Assessments are outstanding and unpaid when due but only to the extent of such unpaid
            amount(s). If an assessed taxable value of a property is subject to a protest or appeal and MIDA
            has received the protested or appealed portion of the Property Taxes paid under protest, MIDA
            shall reserve such funds until such protest or appeal has been finally resolved and has no
            obligation to use that portion to pay until the protest or appeal is resolved.

13.      PROPERTY TAXES AND USE.

         a. LOC Payments. Because of the highly selective national competition to locate a Compute
            Complex and its unique requirements, any Compute Complex is subject to the annual in-lieu
                                                       9
4912-6635-3314, v. 1
              tax payments described in §63H-1-501(4) of the MIDA Act since the facilities are issued a
              Letter of Completion and not a Certificate of Occupancy, as provided in Subsection 12(a)
              (“LOC Payments”). The LOC Payments equal 1.2% of the taxable value on all real and
              personal property in the Compute Complex.

              i.   Because of the volatile nature of assessing Data Center personal property and the rapid
                   depreciation of computer-related chips, all LOC Payments made on personal propert y
                   in a Data Center Campus shall be reimbursed to the Taxpayer within thirty (30) days
                   of receipt by MIDA.

              ii. As of the Effective Date, the total tax rate on real property in Box Elder County is
                  0.927%. Consequently, the LOC Payments rate of 1.2% is 0.273% higher. Therefore,
                  MIDA shall reimburse the Taxpayer 0.273% of the LOC paid on the taxable real
                  property within thirty (30) days of receipt by MIDA.

              iii. Of the remaining LOC Payments on Compute Campus real property after the
                   deduction described in Subsection 13(a)(ii), the remainder shall be divided 80%-20%.
                   The 20% portion shall be retained by MIDA. Pursuant to a separate agreement between
                   MIDA and the State, a portion of the 20% shall be paid to the State as provided in
                   §63H-1-201(3)(z) of the MIDA Act. After payment to the State, MIDA shall use the
                   remainder for military purposes within the Project Area and for development of the
                   Military Land.

              iv. The 80% portion described in Subsection 13(a)(iii) shall be paid to the Mast er
                  Developer within thirty (30) days of receipt by MIDA. The Master Developer shall use
                  the proceeds as allowed by the MIDA Act. Specifically, it may be used to construct
                  Public Infrastructure and Improvements. The Master Developer may request that
                  MIDA create one or more public infrastructure districts that could use some or all of
                  this 80% portion as security to issue bonds that can be used to pay for the Public
                  Infrastructure and Improvements.

         b. Property Tax on Other Real and Personal Property. In addition to Compute Complexes,
            property that has not received a Certificate of Occupancy, is subject to the LOC Payments.
            Once a facility, other than a Compute Complex, receives a Certificate of Occupancy, as
            provided in Subsection 11(b), it is no longer subject to the LOC Payments but instead pays all
            regular property taxes assessed against the property. MIDA may collect 75% of the property
            taxes for up to forty (40) years, as determined by MIDA. These LOC Payments and property
            tax payments are part of MIDA’s Project Area development fund (“Development Fund”)
            which can be used, as provided in the MIDA Act. MIDA may, but is not required to, use the
            Development Fund to incentivize certain uses that will benefit the Project Area, e.g., advanced
            manufacturing.

14.      MET USE.

         a. MET Rate. MIDA will set a MET rate that provides the funding to the County set forth in the
            County Interlocal Agreement. The MET rate will be different for Data Center Campuses, as set
            forth in the County Interlocal Agreement, than it will be for other Energy Generation Facilities
            sales of energy to other users in the Project Area.

         b. Energy Generation Facility Construction. For Data Center Campuses MET, which is paid to
            the County, the initial rate of the MET is 0.5% and it will be adjusted to ensure the County is
                                                     10
4912-6635-3314, v. 1
              paid the minimum amounts described in the County Interlocal Agreement. If requested by the
              Master Developer, the MET on Data Center Campuses may be increased to assist in the vertical
              construction of Energy Generation Facilities. But the first priority is to ensure that the County
              is paid its minimum amounts.

         c. Payment to the County. All of the MET, except the portion described in Subsection 14(b) for
            vertical construction, shall be paid to the County as provided in the County Interlocal
            Agreement.

15.      DEFAULTS. Any failure by either Party to perform any term or provision of this Agreement, which
         failure continues uncured for a period of sixty (60) days following written notice of such failure
         from the other Party (a "Default Notice"), unless such period is extended by written mutual consent,
         shall constitute a default under this Agreement. Any notice given pursuant to the preceding sentence
         shall specify the nature of the alleged failure and, where appropriate, the manner in which said
         failure satisfactorily may be cured. If the nature of the alleged failure is such that it cannot
         reasonably be cured within such 60-day period, then the commencement of the cure within such
         time period, and the diligent prosecution to completion of the cure, thereafter, shall be deemed to
         be a cure within such 60-day period. Upon the occurrence of an uncured default under this
         Agreement, the non-defaulting Party may, as its sole and exclusive remedy, institute legal
         proceedings to enforce the terms of this Agreement. By way of clarity, neither Party shall have a
         right to terminate this Agreement nor shall either Party have the right to pursue, claim or collect
         money damages with respect to a violation or breach of this Agreement in any federal or state court
         or other legal proceeding. Notwithstanding any other provision in this Agreement to the contrary,
         this Agreement shall not be cross-defaulted with any other agreement, including, without limitation,
         any phase-specific Development Agreement and this Agreement.

         a. Enforced Delay; Extension of Time of Performance. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary
            contained herein, neither Party shall be deemed to be in default where delays in performance
            or failures to perform are due to, and a necessary outcome of, war, insurrection, terrorist acts,
            strikes or other labor disturbances, walk-outs, riots, floods, earthquakes, fires, casualties,
            epidemics, pandemics, acts of God, restrictions imposed or mandated by other governmental
            entities, enactment of conflicting state or federal laws or regulations, new or supplemental
            environmental regulations, or similar basis for excused performance which is not within the
            reasonable control of the Party to be excused. Changes in the financial standing of the Parties
            shall not serve as a basis for excused performance. Upon the request of either Party hereto, an
            extension of time for such cause shall be granted in writing for the period of the enforced delay,
            or longer as may be mutually agreed upon.

         b. Master Developer's Actions. As of the Effective Date, the Master Developer agree to release
            any existing claims, known and unknown, against MIDA and its elected and appointed officers,
            agents, employees, and representatives, arising directly out of the formation or approval of this
            Agreement, except for violations of Applicable Law, willful misconduct, or fraudulent acts by
            MIDA. Nothing in this Agreement shall be construed to mean that MIDA shall defend,
            indemnify, or hold the Master Developer or their respective officers, agents and employees
            harmless from any claims of personal injury, death or property damage or other liabilities
            arising from (i) the willful misconduct or negligent acts or omissions of the Master Developer
            or their respective boards, officers, agents, or employees; and/or (ii) the negligent maintenance
            or repair by the Master Developer for which the Master Developer, each as applicable, retains
            the obligation to maintain.

         c. MIDA's Actions. As of the Effective Date, MIDA agrees to release any existing claims, known
                                                      11
4912-6635-3314, v. 1
              and unknown, against the Master Developer and their respective officers, agents, employees,
              and representatives, arising directly out of the formation or approval of this Agreement, except
              for violations of Applicable Law, willful misconduct, or fraudulent acts by the Master
              Developer. Nothing in this Agreement shall be construed to mean that the Master Developer
              shall defend, indemnify, or hold MIDA or its elected and appointed representatives, officers,
              agents and employees harmless from any claims of personal injury, death or property damage
              or other liabilities arising from (i) the willful misconduct or negligent acts omissions of MIDA,
              or its boards, officers, agents, or employees; and/or (ii) the negligent maintenance or repair by
              MIDA of improvements that have been offered for dedication and accepted by MIDA for
              maintenance.

16.      ASSIGNMENT.

         a. Right to Assign. The rights and responsibilities of Master Developer under this Agreement may
            be assigned in whole or in part by the Master Developer so long as a Transfer Acknowledgment
            with respect to such assignment is executed by MIDA, the Master Developer and such assignee
            or transferee; provided, however, that Master Developer's rights and obligations under this
            Agreement shall be appurtenant to and run with the land, and such rights and obligations shall
            only be transferrable along with the land to which such rights and obligations relate. Any
            assignee shall consent in writing to be bound by the assigned terms and conditions of this
            Agreement as a condition precedent to the effectiveness of the assignment.

         b. Assign all of the Project Area. If the Master Developer assigns, transfers or otherwise conveys
            the entire Project Area or any portion thereof to a subsequent owner, and intends to transfer
            any of the rights and obligations under this Agreement in connection with such transfer, the
            Master Developer and the applicable assignee shall execute and deliver a "Transfer
            Acknowledgment" for the purpose of notifying MIDA of the transfer and assignment and
            seeking MIDA's acceptance of the proposed assignee. Upon delivery of a fully executed
            Transfer Acknowledgment and accompanying documentation, MIDA shall evaluate the
            assignee identified therein, and if such assignee is a reputable and experienced developer with
            the financial wherewithal to complete the obligations assigned to and assumed by such
            assignee, MIDA shall execute the Transfer Acknowledgment, indicating MIDA's written
            acceptance of such assignee, which acceptance shall not be unreasonably withheld, conditioned
            or delayed. If MIDA executes the Transfer Acknowledgment and delivers the same to Master
            Developer, the obligations of Master Developer assigned pursuant to such Transfer
            Acknowledgment shall be assigned to and assumed by the identified assignee and Master
            Developer shall be released from all such obligations that are assumed by the identified
            assignee. Until Master Developer delivers a fully executed Transfer Acknowledgment to
            MIDA and MIDA provides its written acceptance of the proposed transferee, the Master
            Developer shall, in addition to the identified assignee, remain jointly and severally liable for
            the obligations of the Master Developer arising under this Agreement expressly assumed by
            the identified assignee pursuant to the applicable Transfer Acknowledgment.

         c. Assignment to Affiliates. Master Developer's transfer of all or any part of the Project Area to
            any Affiliate of Master Developer; Master Developer's entry into a joint venture for the
            development of all or any part of the Project Area; or Master Developer's pledging of part or
            all of the Project Area as security for financing shall not be deemed to be an "assignment"
            subject to the acceptance process by MIDA unless specifically designated as such an
            assignment by the Master Developer. If not a matter of public record, Master Developer shall
            endeavor to give MIDA notice of any event specified in this Section within ten (10) days after
            the event has occurred. Such notice shall include providing MIDA with all necessary contact
                                                      12
4912-6635-3314, v. 1
              information for the newly responsible party. Master Developer shall remain responsible for all
              obligations of this Agreement in such a transfer to a related entity, joint venture, or as security
              for financing except as may be provided in Section 16(b) with respect to MIDA's acceptance
              of a Transfer Acknowledgment.

         d. Creation of Owners Association. The Master Developer may create various Owners
            Associations to govern one or more phases. The Master Developer may transfer certain
            maintenance obligations to the applicable Owners Association, whereupon Master Developer
            shall be relieved of such obligation, provided that the applicable Owners Association has the
            authority to impose fees or other assessments sufficient to perform the maintenance obligations
            transferred to such association.

         e. Written Transfer Agreement Required. When the Master Developer transfers maintenance
            obligations to an Owners Association, Master Developer shall do so by Transfer
            Acknowledgment with respect thereto executed by MIDA, Master Developer, and such Owners
            Association.

17.      ANNEXATION BY A MUNICIPALITY. The Parties acknowledge the possibility that at some
         point during the Term of this Agreement, one or more municipalities may undertake to annex some
         or all of the Project Area into their municipal boundaries, which annexation may not presently
         occur without MIDA's consent. Subject to Applicable Law, MIDA agrees that MIDA will not
         consent to any such annexation unless MIDA consults with Master Developer and the County to
         determine which of those rights and obligations of MIDA under this Agreement shall be assumed
         by the applicable municipality, and those rights and obligations shall be maintained by MIDA, as
         well as the manner in which any such assignment and assumption of rights should be adequately
         documented. The Parties further agree that the express objective of such discussions shall be, to the
         extent reasonably possible, to preserve all of the rights and obligations of MIDA and the Master
         Developer under this Agreement, and to ensure that the County continues to receive its funding set
         forth in the County Interlocal Agreement or the County has agreed to provide some of the funding
         to the annexing municipality.

18.      MORTGAGE PROTECTIONS; ESTOPPEL CERTIFICATE. The Parties agree that this
         Agreement shall not prevent or limit any of the Master Developer from encumbering the Project
         Area or any estate or interest therein (including this Agreement), or any portion thereof, or any
         improvement thereon, in any manner whatsoever by one or more mortgages, deeds of trust, sale
         and leaseback, assignments, pledges, and any or other form of secured financing by which a Master
         Developer interest in the Project Area is directly or indirectly mortgaged, pledged (including any
         pledges of a direct or indirect interest in a Master Developer, or other "mezzanine" or preferred
         equity loans) (each, a "Mortgage") with respect to the construction, development, use or operation
         of the Project Area, or any part thereof. MIDA acknowledges that the lender(s) or prospective
         lender(s) providing such Mortgages (each, together with any successor holder of such Mortgage, a
         "Mortgagee") may require certain interpretations and modifications to this Agreement and MIDA
         agrees, upon request, from time to time, to meet with the Master Developer and representatives of
         such Mortgagee(s) to negotiate in good faith any such request for interpretation or modification.
         MIDA will not unreasonably withhold its consent to any requested interpretation or modification,
         provided such interpretation or modification is consistent with the intent and purposes of this
         Agreement.

         a. No Mortgagee Obligations. Notwithstanding any of the provisions of this Agreement to the
            contrary, no Mortgagee shall have any obligation or duty pursuant to the terms set forth in this
            Agreement to perform the obligations of any Master Developer or other affirmative covenants
                                                       13
4912-6635-3314, v. 1
              of any Master Developer hereunder, or to guarantee such performance unless and until such
              Mortgagee has become the owner in place of a Master Developer as provided in this Section,
              and then only to the extent of such Master Developer 's obligations under this Agreement.

         b. Default Notices. Any Mortgagee of any Mortgage encumbering the Project Area, or part or
            interest thereof, that has submitted a request in writing to MIDA in the manner specified herein
            for giving notices (each, an "Eligible Mortgagee"), shall be entitled to receive written
            notification from MIDA of any notice of non-compliance by any Master Developer in the
            performance of such Master Developer 's obligations under this Agreement. MIDA agrees to
            simultaneously provide any Master Developer with a notice ("Default Notice") of: (i) a default
            under this Agreement, or (ii) a matter on which MIDA may predicate or claim a default, shall
            simultaneously provide a written copy of such Default Notice to each Eligible Mortgagee.
            MIDA shall have no liability for the failure to provide any such Default Notice, except that no
            such Default Notice by MIDA to a Master Developer shall be deemed effective or to have been
            duly given unless and until a written copy thereof has been provided in accordance with the
            terms and conditions of this Agreement to each Eligible Mortgagee. From and after the date
            that such Default Notice has been given to each Eligible Mortgagee, each Eligible Mortgagee
            shall have the same period, after the delivery of such Default Notice upon it, plus in each
            instance, the additional period of time specified in this Section to cure, commence to cure or
            cause to be cured the default(s), acts or omissions which are specified in such Default Notice
            or if such cure cannot be effected without possession of the Project Area, or portion thereof to
            which the Default Notice applies, commence a proceeding to obtain such possession. If a cure
            cannot be effected without possession, once possession has been obtained, Eligible Mortgagee
            shall also have the same period for cure as any Master Developer had after the delivery of such
            Default Notice. MIDA shall accept such performance by or at the instigation of such Eligible
            Mortgagee(s) as if the same had been done by a Master Developer. MIDA authorizes each
            Eligible Mortgagee to take any such action at such Eligible Mortgagee's option at any time.

         c. Curative Rights of Mortgagees. In addition to the rights granted to each Eligible Mortgagee
            under this Section, each Eligible Mortgagee shall have an additional period ("Additional Cure
            Period") of ninety (90) days to: (i) cure, commence to cure or cause to be cured any default of
            which it receives a Default Notice, or (ii) commence a proceeding to obtain possession of the
            property in the case of a default that can only be cured once an Eligible Mortgagee obtains
            possession of the property to which the Notice of Default applies. The provisions of this Section
            shall apply only if an Eligible Mortgagee: (a) Notifies MIDA of Eligible Mortgagee's desire to
            cure such default within sixty (60) days of receipt of the Default Notice; (b) on or before the
            termination of the Additional Cure Period, pays, or causes to be paid, to MIDA any amounts
            (A) then due and in arrears under this Agreement as specified in the Default Notice to such
            Eligible Mortgagee, and (B) any amount which becomes due during the Additional Cure Period
            as and when due; and (c) cures, or in good faith, with reasonable commercial diligence and
            continuity, commences to cure Master Developer's non-monetary requirements of this
            Agreement then in default and reasonably susceptible of being cured by such Eligible
            Mortgagee. Notwithstanding this Section, in the event of any non-monetary default under this
            Agreement, so long as the Eligible Mortgagee commences efforts to effect a cure and thereafter
            provides MIDA reasonable evidence from time to time, as requested in writing by MIDA, that
            the Eligible Mortgagee is diligently pursuing such efforts, Eligible Mortgagee shall have а
            commercially reasonable period of time within which to effect such cure of any such non-
            monetary default; provided that the Eligible Mortgagee shall be obligated only to cure any
            Master Developer's non-monetary obligations reasonably capable of being cured by Eligible
            Mortgagee and which do not require access to the Project Area or the use and operation thereof,
            provided that Eligible Mortgagee shall diligently seek to acquire such access or such use or
                                                     14
4912-6635-3314, v. 1
              operation (either directly or through receivership), and provided further that upon securing such
              access, use or operation (either directly or through receivership), Eligible Mortgagee promptly
              shall commence the cure of any such non-monetary default and shall prosecute same to
              completion with all commercially reasonable due diligence. Notwithstanding the foregoing, an
              Eligible Mortgagee shall have no obligation to cure any default that is personal to a Master
              Developer. Any notice to be given by MIDA to a Mortgagee pursuant to any provision of this
              Section shall be deemed properly addressed if sent to the Mortgagee who served the notice
              referred to in this Section unless notice of a change of Mortgage ownership has been given to
              MIDA in writing. Nothing in this Section, however, shall be construed to extend this
              Agreement beyond the then applicable Term hereof, nor to require an Eligible Mortgagee to
              continue any foreclosure after the default has been cured. If the default has been cured and the
              Eligible Mortgagee shall discontinue any foreclosure, this Agreement shall continue in full
              force and effect as if the Master Developer had not defaulted under this Agreement. If an
              Eligible Mortgagee is complying with this Section, upon the acquisition of Project Area, or
              portion thereof, by such Eligible Mortgagee or its designee or any other purchaser at a
              foreclosure, this Agreement shall continue in full force and effect as if the Master Developer
              had not defaulted under this Agreement and MIDA shall recognize such Eligible Mortgagee or
              its designee or any other purchaser as the "Master Developer" for all purposes under this
              Agreement.

         d. New Agreement. If this any portion of this Agreement is terminated for any reason, including
            a bankruptcy proceeding of any Master Developer, or if this Agreement is disaffirmed by a
            receiver, liquidator, or trustee for a Master Developer or its property, MIDA, if requested by
            any Eligible Mortgagee, shall negotiate in good faith with such Eligible Mortgagee or its
            designee for a new master development agreement with the most senior Eligible Mortgagee
            requesting such new agreement. Such new agreement shall be for the remainder of the then
            applicable Term of this Agreement, effective as of the date of termination, upon the same terms,
            covenants and conditions of this Agreement; provided: (a) such Eligible Mortgagee shall make
            written request upon MIDA for such new agreement within ninety (90) days after the date that
            this Agreement is terminated and notice of such termination is given by MIDA to the Eligible
            Mortgagee; and (b) such Eligible Mortgagee or such designee shall agree to cure any of the
            Master Developer defaults of which such Eligible Mortgagee was notified by MIDA. Any of a
            Master Developer’ non-monetary default(s) which are not reasonably capable of being cured
            shall be deemed waived with respect to a new agreement, provided, the foregoing shall not
            limit any rights or remedies MIDA may have against the Master Developer under this
            Agreement. If more than one Eligible Mortgagee shall request a new agreement pursuant to
            this Section, MIDA shall enter into such new agreement with the Eligible Mortgagee whose
            Mortgage is prior in lien, or with the designee of such Eligible Mortgagee. MIDA, without
            liability to any Master Developer or any Eligible Mortgagee with an adverse claim, may rely
            upon a mortgagee title insurance policy issued by a responsible title insurance company doing
            business in the state where the Project Area is located (which shall be issued in favor of MIDA
            at the sole cost and expense of any such Eligible Mortgagee) as the basis for determining the
            appropriate Eligible Mortgagee which is entitled to such new agreement.

         e. Third Party Beneficiary. Subject to the provisions of this Section, each Eligible Mortgagee is
            an intended third-party beneficiary of the provisions of this Agreement specifically giving
            rights to an Eligible Mortgagee. Except as set forth in this Section, MIDA agrees that no
            Eligible Mortgagee shall in any manner or respect whatsoever be liable or responsible for any
            obligations or covenants of any Master Developer under this Agreement (nor shall any rights
            of such Eligible Mortgagee be contingent on the satisfaction of such obligations or covenants),
            unless and until such Eligible Mortgagee becomes the owner of the Project Area by foreclosure,
                                                      15
4912-6635-3314, v. 1
              sale in lieu of foreclosure or otherwise, in which event such Eligible Mortgagee shall remain
              liable for such obligations and covenants only so long as it remains the owner of the Project
              Area and then only to the extent of such Master Developer ’ obligations under this Agreement.

         f.   Estoppel Certificates. At any time, and from time to time, any Master Developer may deliver
              written notice to MIDA, and MIDA may deliver written notice to Master Developer, requesting
              that such Party certify in writing that, to the knowledge of the certifying Party (i) this
              Agreement is in full force and effect and a binding obligation of the Parties, (ii) this Agreement
              has not been amended, or if amended, the identity of each amendment, (iii) the requesting Party
              is not then in breach of this Agreement, or if in breach, a description of each such breach, and
              (iv) any other factual matters reasonably requested (an "Estoppel Certificate"). The MIDA
              Executive Director shall execute and deliver on behalf of MIDA any Estoppel Certificate
              requested by any Master Developer which complies with this Section within fifteen (15) days
              after a written request for such Estoppel Certificate. MIDA's failure to furnish an Estoppel
              Certificate within such fifteen (15) day period shall be conclusively presumed to mean that:
              (A) this Agreement is in full force and effect without modification in accordance with the terms
              set forth in the request; and (B) there are no breaches or defaults on the part of any Master
              Developer. MIDA acknowledges that an Estoppel Certificate may be relied upon by transferees
              or successors in interest of the Master Developer and by Mortgagees holding an interest in the
              Project Area.

19.      NOTICE. Any notice or communication required hereunder between MIDA and the Master
         Developer shall be sufficiently given or delivered if given in writing (a) upon personal delivery to
         the Party to be notified, (b) when sent by confirmed electronic mail (or acknowledgment of receipt
         or reply by the recipient) if sent during normal business hours of the recipient; if not, then on the
         next business day, or (c) one (1) day after deposit with a nationally recognized overnight courier,
         specifying next day delivery, with written verification of receipt. If personally delivered, a notice
         shall be deemed to have been given when delivered to the Party to whom it is addressed. Any Party
         may at any time, by giving ten (10) days written notice to the other Party, designate any other
         address to which notices or communications shall be given. Such notices or communications shall
         be given to the Parties at their addresses set forth below:

         If to MIDA: Military Installation Development Authority

         Attn: Executive Director
         Email:
         With copies to:

         If to Master Developer:

         With Copies To:

20.      GENERAL PROVISIONS.

         a. Amendment. Unless otherwise stated in this Agreement, the Parties may amend this Agreement
            by mutual written consent. No amendment or modification to this Agreement shall require the
            consent or approval of any Person having any interest in any specific lot, parcel, unit or other
            portion of the Project Area.

         b. No Joint Venture Or Partnership. MIDA and Master Developer hereby renounce the existence
            of any form of agency relationship, joint venture or partnership express or implied between
                                                       16
4912-6635-3314, v. 1
              MIDA and Master Developer and agree that nothing contained herein or in any document
              executed in connection herewith shall be construed as creating any such relationship between
              MIDA and Master Developer.

         c. Incorporation of Background and Exhibits. The Background contained in this Agreement, and
            the Exhibits, are hereby incorporated into this Agreement as if fully set forth herein.

         d. Subjection and Subordination. Each Person that holds any beneficial, equitable, or other
            interest or encumbrances in all or any portion of Project Area at any time automatically, and
            without the need for any further documentation or consent, subjects and subordinates such
            interests and encumbrances to this Agreement and all amendments hereof. Each such Person
            agrees to provide written evidence of that subjection and subordination within fifteen (15) days
            following a written request for the same from, and in a form reasonably satisfactory to, MIDA.

         e. Severability. If any term or provision of this Agreement, or the application of any term or
            provision of this Agreement to a particular situation, is held by a court of competent jurisdiction
            to be invalid, void or unenforceable, the remaining terms and provisions of this Agreement, or
            the application of this Agreement to other situations, shall continue in full force and effect
            unless amended or modified by mutual consent of the Parties. In the event a court determines
            that the Term of this Agreement, or the rights granted to Master Developer hereunder, exceed
            the power of MIDA to make such agreements, this Agreement shall be enforced to the fullest
            extent Applicable Law would allow such rights to be granted hereunder, and this Agreement
            shall not be deemed to be void or voidable. The Parties shall enter into good faith negotiations
            to modify this Agreement as to any offending provision in an effort to accomplish the intent of
            such offending provision within the requirements of Applicable Law.

         f.   Other Necessary Acts. Each Party shall execute and deliver to the other any further instruments
              and documents as may be reasonably necessary to carry out the objectives and intent of this
              Agreement.

         g. Construction. This Agreement has been reviewed and revised by legal counsel for both MIDA
            and Master Developer, and no presumption or rule that ambiguities shall be construed against
            the drafting Party shall apply to the interpretation or enforcement of this Agreement.

         h. Covenants Running with the Land. The provisions of this Agreement shall constitute real
            covenants, contract and property rights, and equitable servitudes, which shall run with the
            Project Area. The burdens and benefits of this Agreement shall bind and inure to the benefit of
            each of the Parties, and to their respective successors, heirs, assigns, and transferees.
            Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary, the owners of individual units or
            lots, as opposed to Subdivision Plats or Development Lots, in the Project Area shall (1) only
            be subject to the burdens of this Agreement to the extent applicable to their particular unit or
            lot; and (2) have no right to bring any action under this Agreement as a third-party beneficiary
            or otherwise.

         i.   Waiver. No action taken by any Party shall be deemed to constitute a waiver of compliance by
              such Party with respect to any representation, warranty, or condition contained in this
              Agreement. Any waiver by any Party of a breach of any provision of this Agreement shall not
              operate or be construed as a waiver by such Party of any subsequent breach.

         j.   Utah Law. This Agreement shall be construed and enforced in accordance with the laws of the
              State of Utah. Any dispute regarding this Agreement that cannot be resolved by the Parties
                                                      17
4912-6635-3314, v. 1
              shall be resolved in a court of competent jurisdiction in Salt Lake County or Box Elder County,
              State of Utah.

         k. Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing. Each Party shall use its commercially reasonable
            efforts and take and employ all necessary actions in good faith consistent with this Agreement
            and Applicable Law to ensure that the rights secured by the other Party through this Agreement
            can be enjoyed.

         l.   Representations. Each Party hereby represents and warrants to each other Party that the
              following statements are true, complete and not misleading as regards the representing
              warranting Party: (a) Such Party is duly organized, validly existing and in good standing under
              the laws of the state of its organization. (b) Such Party has full authority to enter into this
              Agreement and to perform all of its obligations hereunder. The individual(s) executing this
              Agreement on behalf of such Party do so with the full authority of the Party that those
              individual(s) represent. (c) This Agreement constitutes the legal, valid and binding obligation
              of such Party enforceable in accordance with its terms, subject to the rules of bankruptcy,
              moratorium and equitable principles.

         m. No Third-Party Beneficiaries. This Agreement is between MIDA and Master Developer.
            Except as provided in Section 16 pertaining to an assignment and Subsection 18(e) pertaining
            to Mortgagee Protections, no other Person shall be deemed a third-party beneficiary or have
            any rights under this Agreement.

         n. Whole Agreement. This Agreement is the final and exclusive understanding and agreement of
            the Parties and supersedes all negotiations or previous agreements between the Parties with
            respect to all or any part of the subject matter hereof.

                                         [Signature Page to Follow]




                                                     18
4912-6635-3314, v. 1
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Parties have signed this Agreement effective as specified above.



                                                         Military Installation Development Authority




                                                         [____________]
                                                         [Executive Director]


Approved as to Form:


_________________________________
[____________]
Attorney for MIDA



MIDA ACKNOWLEDGMENT

STATE OF UTAH )
 :ss.
COUNTY OF____________)

On the _____ day of _______, 2026, personally appeared before me __________ who being by me duly
sworn, did say that he is the Mayor of the City of______, a political subdivision of the State of Utah, and
that said instrument was signed in behalf of the City by authority of its City Council and said Mayor
acknowledged to me that the City executed the same.

                                                 __________________________________
                                                 NOTARY PUBLIC


My Commission Expires: ________________

Residing at: _________________________




                                                    19
4912-6635-3314, v. 1
                                                                                                Master
Developer Signature block



MASTER DEVELOPER ACKNOWLEDGMENT

STATE OF UTAH                  )
                               :ss.
COUNTY OF SALT LAKE)

        On the _____ day of _______, 2026, personally appeared before me ____________, who being by
me duly sworn, did say that he is the Manager of____________, a Utah limited liability company and that
the foregoing instrument was duly authorized by the company at a lawful meeting held by authority of its
operating agreement and signed in behalf of said company.

                                                       ______________________________
                                                       NOTARY PUBLIC

My Commission Expires: ________________

Residing at: _________________________




                                                  20
4912-6635-3314, v. 1
                         EXHIBIT A
                       Legal Description




                              21
4912-6635-3314, v. 1
                       EXHIBIT A-1
                          Map




                           22
4912-6635-3314, v. 1
                               EXHIBIT B
                       County Interlocal Agreement




                                   23
4912-6635-3314, v. 1
                                        EXHIBIT C
                       Stratos Project Area Standards and Guidelines




                                            24
4912-6635-3314, v. 1
