Startup State Initiative | Utah
Start Your Journey
Resources
Create Your Business Plan
Resource List
Get Funding
Grants
Other Funding Sources
Why Utah?
Events
News
Contact
/ WELCOME TO THE STARTUP CAPITAL OF THE WORLD /
Start something here
The Startup State Initiative highlights what already exists in Utah and elevates it to new heights. It isn’t just about Utah; it’s about setting a new global standard for innovation and entrepreneurship.
Start your journey
About the Initiative
UTAH's thriving ecosystem
Be a part of Utah’s thriving startup scene. Start, grow, and build your business in the Startup Capital of the World.
Starting a Business
New Business Steps
Grow Your Business
Explore Resources
Get Funding
Funding Opportunities
Build Connections
Find Events
UTAH: THE STARTUP STATE
The Governor’s Office of Economic Opportunity Startup State Initiative opens in a new tab celebrates, inspires, and empowers Utah entrepreneurs and those who support them. It consists of a statewide entrepreneurship brand and business resource portal being developed on this site. This collaborative initiative supports entrepreneurs throughout the lifecycle of their business and encourages them to start in Utah.
Utah’s Startup Community
Utah provides fertile soil for modern innovators and entrepreneurs. As the country’s fastest-growing state, with a well-educated workforce and thriving economy, Utah’s mountains, valleys, deserts, and plateaus provide the perfect environment to nourish and champion the startup and entrepreneurial spirit.
The state’s growth, unparalleled quality of life, government support for small businesses, and access to startup networks and capital attract doers and innovative thinkers to Utah’s communities.
In January 2023, WalletHub named Utah the No. 1 best state to start a business. Utah is the startup state.
Utah’s Startup State Initiative Team
In 2023, under the leadership of Gov. Spencer Cox, Utah was designated as the Startup Capital of the World—a place filled with opportunities of advancement for Utah entrepreneurs. The Governor’s Office of Economic Opportunity (GOEO) leads the Startup State Initiative, supporting policies and programs that strengthen Utah’s entrepreneurial ecosystem.
This website and its resources are part of GOEO’s ongoing efforts to promote and amplify Utah’s vibrant startup community and elevate statewide conversations, connections, and tools for success.
Subscribe to Our Newsletter
Need some money to get your idea off the ground? Looking for a collaborative community of like-minded entrepreneurs? Consider subscribing to the Startup State Initiative newsletter so you can receive monthly updates on resources, tips, events, and more.
Learn More
Let's connect
Utah Governor's Office of Economic Opportunity (GOEO)
60 East South Temple, Suite 300
Salt Lake City, Utah 84111-1041
[email protected]
Journey
I'm thinking of starting my business
Start my business
Grow my business
Close or sell my business
Email Newsletters
Sign up for our email newsletters to learn more about our office.
Subscribe to Newsletter
An official state of Utah website
Utah.gov
Home
Media and Press
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
Accessibility Policy
Translate
Start Your Journey
Resources
Create Your Business Plan
Resource List
Get Funding
Grants
Other Funding Sources
Why Utah?
Events
News
Contact
Search Submit Clear
WELCOME!
This site is currently in Beta. Your feedback matters as we refine the Startup State tool for an even better experience.
Thank you for joining us!
