Utah Population Database | University of Utah Health | University of Utah Health
Skip to main content
Huntsman Cancer Institute
Search
Search
Menu
Home
Huntsman Cancer Institute Research
Cancer Center Shared Resources
Utah Population Database
Utah Population Database
Contact Us
Close
University of Utah Health
Utah Population Database
Department of Utah Population Database
Back to Cancer Center Shared Resources
Services and Fees
Sub Menu
Directions and Parking
Analytical Services
Geospatial Services
Research Requests
UPDB-L (Query Tool)
Database Overview
Sub Menu
Access to Data
Birth Certificate Fields
Death Certificate Fields
Externally Linked Records
Family History Records
Health Facilities and Claims Records
Other Records
Registry Records
Vital Records
Publications
Sub Menu
2009 and Earlier
2010 - 2011
2012 - 2013
2014 - 2015
2016 - 2017
2018 - 2019
2020 - 2021
Grants
Staff
FAQ
Acknowledging UPDB
Services
Data
Publications
Staff
Acknowledgement
Informational Video
The Utah Population Database (UPDB) at Huntsman Cancer Institute at the University of Utah is one of the world’s richest sources of in-depth information that supports research on genetics, epidemiology, demography, and public health. Since the mid 1970s, researchers at the University of Utah and other institutions have used UPDB to identify and study individuals and families that have higher than normal incidence of cancer or other diseases, to analyze patterns of genetic inheritance, and to identify specific genetic mutations. In addition, demographic studies have shown trends in fertility transition and changes in mortality patterns for both infants and adults.
The UPDB is the only database of its kind in the United States and one of few such resources in the world. The central component of the UPDB is an extensive set of Utah family histories, in which family members are linked to demographic and medical information. The UPDB includes diagnostic records about cancer, cause of death, and medical details associated with births. It also includes claims data from statewide inpatient hospital discharge records as well as ambulatory surgery records from hospital outpatient departments and ambulatory surgery centers. The UPDB provides access to information on more than 11 million individuals and supports approximately 400 research projects. This information can only be used for biomedical and health-related research; the privacy of individuals represented in these records and confidentiality of the data is strictly protected.
View Information on Driver License Records Opt Out Process .
Highlights of the UPDB:
It has contributed to important gene discoveries including those for colon cancer (APC), breast cancer (BRCA1), melanoma (p16), and cardiac arrhythmia (KCNH2)
It is linked to the major health care providers in the state – Intermountain Healthcare and the University of Utah
It covers the entire state including rural and frontier counties
Every state and nearly every country is represented in the database based on their birth place
Support for the UPDB is provided by Huntsman Cancer Institute and the University of Utah. The Utah Resource for Genetic and Epidemiologic Research (RGE) and an Institutional Review Board (IRB) oversee access to data through an independent review process. RGE and the IRB are administered through the Office of Research Integrity and Compliance at the University of Utah.
Contact Us
Utah Population Database Director
Nicola Camp, PhD
Utah Population Database Operations Manager
Dinah Busico, MPA
Contact Form
Governance
HCI Senior Director Oversight
Tracy Onega, PhD, MS
Faculty Advisory Committee Chair
Anne Kirchhoff PhD
Faculty Advisory Committee Members
Djin Tay, PhD
Britton Trabert, PhD
Joshua Schiffman, MD
Arabella Young, PhD
Srinivas Tantravahi, MBBS, MRCP
Amanda Bakian, PhD
David Curtis, PhD
Mick Jurynec, PhD
Joemy Ramsay, PhD
Lauren Theilen, MD
Marcus Pezzolesi, PhD
2000 Cir of Hope Dr
Salt Lake City, Utah
84112
801-585-0303
