UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Federal Trade Commission
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20580

April 24, 2020
Via Electronic Mail

Tranont
c/o Lorne Berry, CEO
3451 N. Triumph Blvd.
Garden Level
Lehi, Utah 84043

Warning Regarding Health and Earnings Claims Related to Coronavirus
Disease 2019 (COVID-19)

Dear Mr. Berry,

FTC staff has reviewed social media posts made by Tranont business opportunity
participants or representatives that unlawfully advertise that certain products treat or prevent
Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) and misrepresent that consumers who become Tranont
business opportunity participants are likely to earn substantial income. This letter is to provide
you with information about laws and regulations enforced by the Federal Trade Commission
(“FTC”) that may bear upon your business activities, including the activities of your business
opportunity participants and representatives.

Some examples of Coronavirus prevention or treatment claims made by your business
opportunity participants or representatives include:

 “You’ll need a strong immune system to fight Coronavirus. Get great plant based
supplements to help support your immune system and the systems of your family
members.”
 “Fight the Corona virus by building up your immune system. NEW products
available now.”
 “Fight corona virus with beneficial Nitric Oxide (NO) in your body with L-argine
AAKG and plant based compounds that produce and protect Nitrix Oxide
production.”
 “NEW PRODUCT. TECHNO BOOST can help you fight Coronavirus. Order
yours today.”
 “Did you know the Coronavirus is a nucleoprotein and other viruses are made up
of viral proteins? Well I have Restore, Restore is a proteolytic enzyme which
breaks down proteins. Get yourself some Restore to help you break down the
proteins in your body.”

Some examples of earnings claims made by your business opportunity participants or
representatives include:

 “Maybe some of us have lost our jobs or are trying to figure out how we’re paying
for childcare now. . . . What I’m going to share with you is something that . . .
even with the crazy economy, you can build something massive.” [38 minutes
later] “Whether you want to make an extra $600 a month, an extra $10,000 a
month, or you want to make over $1 million a year, you can do that…” [5 minutes
later] “The economy is a little bit unstable right now. . . . This is a way for you to
have a plan B—for you to take control of whatever it is that you’re looking for.
Maybe it’s to retire. Maybe it’s to get out of debt. Maybe it’s to pay for college
. . . . You have an opportunity to take advantage of something massive and help
people give gifts to everybody that you know: a health gift and financial
freedom.”

It is unlawful under the FTC Act, 15 U.S.C. § 41 et seq., to advertise that a product can
prevent, treat, or cure human disease unless you possess competent and reliable scientific
evidence, including, when appropriate, well-controlled human clinical studies, substantiating that
the claims are true at the time they are made. For COVID-19, no such study is currently known
to exist for the products identified above. Thus, any coronavirus-related prevention or treatment
claims regarding such products are not supported by competent and reliable scientific evidence.
You must immediately cease making all such claims.

Additionally, representations about a business opportunity, including earnings claims,
violate Section 5 of the FTC Act, 15 U.S.C. § 41 et seq., if they are false, misleading, or
unsubstantiated and material to consumers. Express and implied earnings claims must be truthful
and non-misleading to avoid being deceptive, which means that claims about the potential to
achieve a wealthy lifestyle, career-level income, or significant income are false or misleading if
business opportunity participants generally do not achieve such results. Even truthful
testimonials from participants who do earn significant income or more will likely be misleading
unless the advertising also makes clear the amount earned or lost by most participants. Your
business opportunity participants and representatives must immediately cease making all express
and implied earnings claims that would be false or misleading to current or prospective
participants.

You are responsible for the claims of your business opportunity participants and
representatives. As the FTC stated in the January 2019 Business Guidance Concerning Multi-
Level Marketing, the compensation structure of a Multi-Level Marketing entity (“MLM”) may
create incentives for its participants to make certain representations to current or prospective
participants. “As a consequence, an MLM should (i) direct its participants not to make false,
misleading, or unsubstantiated representations and (ii) monitor its participants so they don’t
make false, misleading, or unsubstantiated representations.”

You are advised to review all claims relating to your products and business opportunity
and immediately cease, and require your business opportunity participants and representatives to
cease, making claims that are not supported by the evidence or substantiation described above.

2

Within 48 hours, please send reply via email to COVID-19-Task-Force@ftc.gov
describing the specific actions you have taken to address the FTC’s concerns. If you have any
questions regarding compliance with the FTC Act, please contact us at COVID-19-Task-
Force@ftc.gov.

Sincerely,

Federal Trade Commission Staff

3
