Node 4: What's in a name? - University Information Technology - The University of Utah
Skip to content
Search Site:
Powered by
Search Campus:
Powered by
Search Campus
Campus Alert
The University of Utah
University Information Technology (UIT)
Services
Service Catalog
Box
CIS
Google Workspace
Microsoft 365 (UMAIL)
Service Quick Links
Departments
Governance
overview
Committees
CIO Office
About the CIO
Uit Leadership
Support Staff
Strategic plans
About
About UIT
ORG Charts
Job Openings
Job Openings
Student Program
IT Policies
Committees
IT Organization Memberships
Node 4
Campus IT HELP DESK (801-581-4000)
About the help desk
U of U IT KNOWLEDGE BASE
IT guides
TWO-FACTOR AUTHENTICATION
Account access and IT security settings
Password tester
Start-of-semester help
Search
Reveal Menu
Reveal Menu
Main Navigation
Main Menu
Home
U of U IT Knowledge Base
Campus IT Help Desk
About the Help Desk
IT guides
Account access and IT security settings
Password tester
Start-of-semester help
Services
Service Catalog
Box
CIS
Google Workspace
Microsoft 365 (UMail)
Service Quick Links
Governance
Overview
Committees
CIO Office
About the CIO
UIT Leadership
Support staff
Strategic Plans
Departments
About
About UIT
Org charts
Jobs
Job openings
Student program
IT policies
Committees
IT organization memberships
Node 4
Subscribe to UIT News
Home
Node 4
Posts
2017
August
current page: Node 4: What's in a name?
You’re accessing archived content
This is archived content from the UIT website. Information may be outdated, and links
may no longer function. Please contact stratcomm@it.utah.edu if you have any questions about archived content.
What's in a name?
August 30, 2017 Jesse Drake
In the case of Node 4, the U's role in the birth of the internet
Learn more from Marriott Library's ARPANET Project .
Since October 2013 Node 4 has been the University's source for UIT news.
Every so often, someone asks, “What does Node 4 mean?”
The short answer is: In 1969, the University of Utah’s Computer Science Department
became the fourth node of ARPANET , the world's first packet-switching computer network and precursor of today’s internet.
Here's the long answer.
The internet can’t be traced back to any single inventor or birthplace, but an oft-quoted
origin story involves the Cold War, Sputnik, fear of falling behind the Soviets, and
tensions around a nuclear attack.
In 1957, news of humanity’s first artificial Earth satellite received a lackadaisical
reception in the Soviet Union. Not so in the United States, where it shattered the
popular belief that America was far-and-away the world’s leading technological superpower.
For many Americans, Sputnik was stunning proof that the U.S. was lagging behind in
the “Space Race.”
A significant science and engineering gap has since been discounted as hype , but competition begets innovation, and in 1958, the U.S. federal government founded
the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) and the Department of Defense’s Advanced Research Projects Agency (ARPA),
organizations tasked with developing space-age technologies (e.g., rockets, weapons
and computers). ARPA later gained a "D," becoming the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (DARPA).
According to The History Channel , after Sputnik, scientists and military experts were especially worried about an
attack on the nation’s telephone system, which made long-distance communication possible:
In 1962, a scientist from M.I.T. and ARPA named J.C.R. Licklider proposed a solution
to this problem: a “galactic network” of computers that could talk to one another.
Such a network would enable government leaders to communicate even if the Soviets
destroyed the telephone system.
In 1965, another M.I.T. scientist developed a way of sending information from one
computer to another that he called “packet switching.” Packet switching breaks data
down into blocks, or packets, before sending it to its destination. That way, each
packet can take its own route from place to place. Without packet switching, [ARPANET]
… would have been just as vulnerable to enemy attacks as the phone system.
1969 ARPANET diagram from logs at UCLA ( Computer History Museum )
In 1969, the University of Utah became the fourth node on the ARPANET – the first
outside of California to join the network (after UCLA, Stanford Research Institute
and the University of California Santa Barbara), an effort spearheaded by Computer
Science Professor Ivan Sutherland, Ph.D., an A.M. Turing Award-winner .
Later that year, the first “node-to-node” message between research labs at UCLA and
Stanford was delivered. “LOGIN” – albeit short and simple – crashed the network after
the Stanford computer only received the "L" and "O."
The political backdrop of the internet’s early development may have been the Cold
War, but the social force behind these technologies was undeniably in academia.
"We have found that, in the process of connecting machines and operating systems together,
a great deal of rapport has been established between personnel at the various network
node sites. The resulting mixture of ideas, discussions, disagreements, and resolutions
has been highly refreshing and beneficial to all involved, and we regard the human
interaction as a valuable by-product of the main effect."
- Stephen Carr, Stephen Crocker and Vinton Cerf, Feb. 1970
For a more detailed lifecycle of ARPANET, check out Marriott Library’s ARPANET Timeline Project (1969-1980).
Former School of Computing Professor Lee Hollaar, Ph.D., talks about what it was like when the U was a node
on the ARPANET.
There you have it: The story behind the name Node 4, and the U's distinguished place
in the history of the internet.
Share this article:
Tags:
Node 4 Search
Node 4
Our monthly newsletter includes news from UIT and other campus/ University of Utah
Health IT organizations, features about UIT employees, IT governance news, and various
announcements and updates.
Subscribe
Categories
Digital Learning Technologies
Employee Feature
IT Governance
IT Leadership Spotlight
IT Security News
Kudos
Meet Your Colleagues
Network News
PMO Corner
Software
Student Success
Featured Posts
University Information Technology
The University of Utah
102 S. 200 East, STE. 110
Salt Lake City, UT 84111
801-581-4000
Stay in Touch
Find Us
Contact Us
Webmaster
Quick Links
CIS
UMail
IT SERVICE CATALOG
NODE 4
SOFTWARE CATALOG
U of U IT KNOWLEDGE BASE
U of U IT SERVICES STATUS
© 2026 The University of Utah
Nondiscrimination & Accessibility
Disclaimer
Privacy
Credits & Attributions
About the U
Media Contacts
X
Facebook
Instagram
Youtube
Last Updated: 4/21/26
