Animal Sanctuary | Best Friends Animal Society
Skip to main content
Tertiary Menu
Who We Are
Pet Memorials
Locations
Shop
En Español
Search Icon
Donations Menu
Donate
Monthly
In Memory
In Honor
Workplace
DAF
Header Menu
Saving Shelter Animals
The Sanctuary
How You Can Help
Stories
Adopt
Ways to Give
|
Thank you for your RSVP to attend Discovery Weekend on June 11-14, 2026! A confirmation email will be sent to the email address provided. If you have any questions, please reach out to events@bestfriends.org . We look forward to welcoming you to the Sanctuary.
Thank you for your RSVP to attend Friends and Founders on April 13-15, 2026! A confirmation email will be sent to the email address provided. If you have any questions, please reach out to events@bestfriends.org .
Thank you for your RSVP to attend Friends and Founders on April 16-18, 2026! A confirmation email will be sent to the email address provided. If you have any questions, please reach out to events@bestfriends.org .
Thank you for your RSVP to attend Friends and Founders on September 14-16, 2026! A confirmation email will be sent to the email address provided. If you have any questions, please reach out to events@bestfriends.org .
Thank you for your RSVP to attend Friends and Founders on September 17-19, 2026! A confirmation email will be sent to the email address provided. If you have any questions, please reach out to events@bestfriends.org .
Welcome to Best Friends Animal Sanctuary
On any given day, Best Friends Animal Sanctuary is the healing home for up to 1,600 dogs, cats, birds, bunnies, horses, pigs and other animals.
The largest sanctuary of its kind in the U.S., Best Friends has become the heart of a collaborative no-kill movement, and a model for the future of animal welfare.
Today, because of people like you and rescues and shelters around the country, we will bring the entire nation to no-kill.
Plan Your Visit
Explore what makes the Sanctuary extraordinary
Tucked into the majestic canyons of southern Utah, the Sanctuary is truly a place like no other. See for yourself what a magical place it is.
Red-rock vistas meet endless blue skies as the sweet smell of sage lingers in the air. The beauty of the landscape is dwarfed only by the exquisite show of resilience and trust of the animals who come here — and by the love and compassion offered by Best Friends’ members, volunteers and caregivers.
View All Areas
Dogtown: A chance to grow and thrive
Life-changing care — from healing broken bones to mending broken hearts — and loving companionship are part of each pup’s journey.
See Dogtown
Cat World: Custom care for cats and kittens
Whether they’re shy and scared, friendly and playful, or have special needs, Cat World provides a comforting place for every kind of feline.
See Cat World
Horse Haven: Health and healing for horses and other equines
Horse Haven residents receive not only outstanding medical and farrier care, but love, attention and room to run.
See Horse Haven
Marshall’s Piggy Paradise: A place to snuffle and play
Mud baths, healthy food, social time, exercise and enrichment are all part of the program here.
See Marshall’s Piggy Paradise
Bunny House: A home for happy hoppers
The Bunny House offers companionship with other rabbits, expert veterinary care and places to dig and explore.
See Bunny House
Parrot Garden: Refuge for feathered friends
In this light-filled, tropical environment, rescued parrots are assured the mental and social stimulation they need to thrive.
See Parrot Garden
Wild Friends: Rehabilitation for the injured and orphaned
At Wild Friends, the goal is to restore the animals’ health and release them back into the wild.
See Wild Friends
Know before you go
The Sanctuary is an incredibly special place, and here’s everything you need to know to ensure that your visit is amazing. Remember, tours and volunteer shifts tend to fill up quickly, so be sure to book in advance.
Start planning your visit
Getting here
Kanab, Utah, is slightly off the beaten path, but getting here isn’t difficult.
At the Sanctuary
There’s so much to do, explore and discover, right here on the Sanctuary grounds.
Volunteering
Shift times, age requirements, safety tips, and what to expect when you're working with the animals.
Accessibility and animals
Best Friends is committed to ensuring that our facilities are accessible to everyone.
Around Kanab
From hiking and camping to climbing and biking, southern Utah has it all.
Where to stay
From boutique lodging to a rustic campground, you’ll feel right at home.
Sanctuary FAQs
Can I visit the Best Friends sanctuary?
Yes! Tours are a great way to take in the beauty of the canyon while getting an overview of the important work at the Sanctuary. Best Friends Animal Sanctuary is open from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. Mountain Time every day except Christmas. This is a working sanctuary where structure and routine can be key to the animals' sense of safety and security, so walk-ins are not permitted at our animal care centers, but we encourage you to sign up to volunteer and tour . More than 30,000 visitors come to the Sanctuary each year.
Where is the Best Friends sanctuary located?
Best Friends Animal Sanctuary is located at 5001 Angel Canyon Road in Kanab, Utah. Tucked into the majestic canyons of southern Utah, the Sanctuary is truly a place like no other. The Sanctuary is situated near several scenic wonders, including Zion National Park, the Grand Canyon's North Rim, Bryce Canyon, and Lake Powell. The entrance is between the 69 and 70 mile markers on Highway 89. Turn into Kanab Canyon when you see the big Best Friends sign. The Sanctuary is in the Mountain time zone. Get directions . Plan your visit .
How big is the Best Friends sanctuary?
On any given day, Best Friends Animal Sanctuary is the healing home for up to 1,600 dogs, cats, birds, bunnies, horses, pigs, rehabilitating wildlife, and other animals. The largest sanctuary of its kind in the U.S., it spans nearly 5,800 acres in Angel Canyon. Multiple animal care areas include Dogtown, Cat World, Horse Haven, Bunny House, Parrot Garden, and Marshall's Piggy Paradise . Best Friends has become the heart of a collaborative no-kill movement and a model for the future of animal welfare.
What animals live at the Sanctuary?
Best Friends Animal Sanctuary is the healing home on any given day for up to 1,600 animals, many of whom have special needs. They include dogs, cats, birds, bunnies, horses, pigs, rehabilitating wildlife, and other animals. Many of them are ready to go home with loving families, making way for new arrivals. For the small number of animals who are never ready for adoption due to special needs, the Sanctuary is their home for life. Explore the animal areas . Browse adoptable Sanctuary pets .
Can I adopt an animal from the Sanctuary?
Yes! Many Sanctuary animals are available for adoption, making way for new arrivals. For the small number of animals who are never ready for adoption due to special needs, the Sanctuary is their home for life. You can visit the Sanctuary to meet adoptable animals in person or browse available pets online .
What is the Sanctuary experience like?
Visiting the Sanctuary is an experience like no other — just ask any of the 30,000 guests (annually) who visit the beautiful red-rock canyon retreat in southern Utah. Guided tours are available every 90 minutes with opportunities to meet the animals and learn about operations and care. Please book in advance! Or, enjoy your own self-guided exploration of the grounds and public areas. We also invite you to drop in to the Visitor Center, browse the gift shop, or grab lunch at the café. We look forward to hosting you. Plan your visit .
How do I volunteer at the Sanctuary?
Volunteering is the best way to get hands-on with dogs, cats, bunnies, horses, birds, pigs, and more while at the Sanctuary. Volunteers are always welcome and are a vital part of helping the animals to get ready for new homes. Volunteers come from all over and spend time working with the animals and giving them personal care and attention. Signing up for a volunteer shift is one of the best ways to ensure that you get quality time with the animals. Day shifts and volunteer vacations are available. Please make arrangements to volunteer before you arrive. Learn about volunteering at the Sanctuary . Book a volunteer shift .
Are there places to stay near the Sanctuary?
The Best Friends Roadhouse and Mercantile is located in the town of Kanab, just a short drive from the Sanctuary. Or make yourself at home at one of Best Friends' cottages, cabins, or RV sites , all conveniently located on the Sanctuary grounds. Book in advance, especially during busy seasons. Kanab also has many hotels, motels, and vacation rentals. Many visitors combine their Sanctuary trip with visits to nearby Zion National Park, the Grand Canyon, Bryce Canyon, and Lake Powell.
What is Dogtown at the Sanctuary?
Dogtown is the Sanctuary's dog care area, where dogs and puppies receive healing, learning, and fun. As seen on the National Geographic TV series DogTown and The CW's Dog Town USA, many dogs are healing from abuse or neglect. Some have medical issues. All are healing in some form, and everything about Dogtown was designed to provide as much comfort and create as little stress as possible. Along with top-of-the-line veterinary treatment, these dogs get all the TLC and training they need to heal and thrive so that they can be adopted into loving homes. Dogs live in thoughtfully chosen pairs or groups with access to indoor and outdoor space. Browse adoptable dogs .
Can I bring my own pet to the Sanctuary?
Personal pets are allowed in public areas, including Angel Village, hiking trails, and the welcome center. Personal pets are not allowed in indoor dining areas, nor in workshops or animal areas for biosecurity reasons. Service animals are allowed in public areas but not in animal care areas. Pets must be kept on leashes no longer than 6 feet when they are outside. The leash policy is strictly enforced. Please do not leave a tethered dog unattended, and do not leave your pet in a vehicle unattended, regardless of the weather. View visitor policies and accessibility information .
Make the most of your stay
You've made it to Kanab?
Great! Bookmark this page for help with what to do and where to go.
Enjoy your visit
Join our online community
We hope you enjoyed your visit to the Sanctuary, and the animals hope you will stay connected!
Follow us on social media
See Best Friends Animal Sanctuary with our smartphone app
Take a self-guided tour of the world's largest no-kill animal sanctuary for homeless pets and meet the animals who call it their home-between-homes.
Learn more about the app
Book your trip
There’s so much for you to see and do — volunteer, take a tour, host a sleepover and more — so reserve your spots before they fill up.
Book Activities or Lodging
Compassion in action
Read more about the lifesaving work going on every day and the devotion of our animal caregivers.
Meet the Caregiver: Ashley McDaniel
“The great thing about working with animals is that they bring so much life into my work, and each day is so rewarding.”
A recent grad’s journey
Meet the Caregiver: Brianna Vlach
A champion for misunderstood animal’s gives the residents at Wild Friends what they need to thrive.
The joys of caring for Wild Friends
Meet the Caregiver: Elle Greer
Elle Greer’s passion for rescue work and parrots brought her to Best Friends, but we think she stays for the dance parties.
Elle’s love for rescue
Meet the Caregiver: Sondra Lewis
A move across the country to be a part of the lifesaving work at Best Friends leads to the Bunny House.
The satisfaction of working with bunnies
Meet the Caregiver: Tim Dempsey
"The best part of my day is first thing in the morning when I check on and say hello to each of the dogs in my care.”
Tim’s work at Dogtown
Make a difference for homeless pets
Your contribution will go straight to work helping animals at the Sanctuary and across the country.
Make a Lifesaving Gift
Contact Us
Best Friends Animal Sanctuary
Nonprofit501c3
Best Friends Animal Society
5001 Angel Canyon Rd
Kanab , UT 84741
United States
435-688-2327
Sunday - Saturday: 08:00 am-06:00 pm
About Best Friends Animal Society
Best Friends is working to end the killing of dogs and cats in U.S. shelters in part by getting more pets out of shelters and into loving homes.
We’ve come a long way since the first known city reached no-kill in 1994, and now we’re closer than ever to making the entire country no-kill. Of the roughly 3,900 shelters operating in America today, 1,300 of them are not yet no-kill, but nearly half are close with 100 or fewer additional pets to be saved, and we know what to do to get them there.
Best Friends is committed to working with passionate people like you to save homeless pets through adoption, volunteering, fostering, and advocacy. In addition to our pet adoption centers around the U.S, we also founded and run the nation's largest no-kill sanctuary for companion animals.
Working together, we can save homeless pets in our communities and secure a better future for our best friends. Together, we will bring the whole country to no-kill.
Together, we can Save Them All.
Best Friends, a 501(c)(3) nonprofit organization (tax ID# 23-7147797), operates the nation’s largest sanctuary for homeless animals and provides adoption, spay/neuter, and educational programs.
Save Them All
Stay in touch with the animals via email updates, as they get second chances at happy homes.
Bring Love Home Subscription
Subscribe
Social Menu
Best Friends Animal Society Facebook Page
Best Friends Animal Society Instagram Page
Best Friends Animal Society Pinterest Page
Best Friends Animal Society LinkedIn Page
Best Friends Animal Society Threads Page
Best Friends Animal Society YouTube Channel
Best Friends Animal Society TikTok Page
Best Friends Animal Society Twitch Channel
Best Friends Animal Society Discord
Sections
Saving Shelter Animals
The Sanctuary
Act for Animals
Stories
Adopt
Ways to Give
Who We Are
Pet Care
Locations
Shop
En Español
How You Can Help
Adopt
Donate
Foster
Learn with Best Friends
Pet Memorials
Take Action
Volunteer
Work at Best Friends
Programs
Houston
Los Angeles
New York City
Northwest Arkansas
Salt Lake City
Mobile Apps
Best Friends Animal Sanctuary App
Experience the magic of the Sanctuary during your visit to Kanab, Utah or from your couch.
Other Best Friends Sites
Best Friends Roadhouse and Mercantile
Best Friends Store
Network Partners
Strut Your Mutt
About
Careers
Internships
For the Media
FAQs
Position Statements
Financial Information
In the Spotlight
As seen on National Geographic’s DogTown and the CW's Dog Town USA. And the inspiration behind the critically acclaimed film, The Champions .
We're proud to be one of the 2024 Top Workplaces, and honored to be recognized for our innovative work to take the entire country no-kill.
Image
Image
Image
Image
Image
Image
Legal Menu
Contact Us
Data Sharing Request
Privacy Policy
Terms & Conditions
© 2026 Best Friends Animal Society. All Rights Reserved.
