The INN Between - Frequently Asked Questions
Accessibility Tools
Invert colors
Monochrome
Dark contrast
Light contrast
Low saturation
High saturation
Highlight links
Highlight headings
Screen reader
Read mode
Content scaling
100 %
Font size
100 %
Line height
100 %
Letter spacing
100 %
Contact
Referrals
I want to...
Start a Referral
Donate
Volunteer
Fulfill our Wishlist
Shop for a Cause
About Mission and Services
Staff and Board
Supporters
Frequently Asked Questions
Bid Requests
Job Opportunities
Media Coverage
Annual Reports
DEI Commitment
Obituaries
Stories
Events
10 Years
Donate
Frequently Asked Questions
What is a Hospice?
Hospice (noun) : A home providing care for the sick, especially the terminally ill. The philosophy of hospice is to treat the whole person by providing support for the patient’s emotional, social, and spiritual needs, not just the medical symptoms.
Is The INN Between a Homeless Shelter?
The INN Between is a licensed Assisted Living Type II Medical Respite Facility, not a homeless shelter. Homeless shelters accept walk-up clients who are seeking emergency shelter on a night-to-night basis. The INN Between is a medical respite facility, meaning it provides temporary housing to individuals who are too ill to be on the streets but not ill enough to be in the hospital. Unlike shelters, The INN Between requires a medical referral for each potential client, and we schedule a projected length of stay, assign a 24/7 bed, and provide access to medical care along with intensive case management and comprehensive emotional and social support.
The INN Between supports our shelter system by providing an end of life placement for terminally ill individuals or a temporary placement for medically frail individuals
Resources
Start a Medical Respite or End-of-Life Care Program in Your Community
Are you looking to launch a medical respite or end-of-life care facility for individuals experiencing homelessness? You are not alone—and you don’t have to start from scratch.
At The INN Between, we believe that everyone deserves a dignified death, regardless of housing status. To support others in creating compassionate, community-based care models, we’ve embedded a comprehensive guide from the National Health Care for the Homeless Council on our website: “End-of-Life Care in Medical Respite Programs”.
This guide offers a foundational framework for integrating hospice and palliative care into the continuum of homeless services. It outlines critical considerations including facility design, staffing, partnerships with hospice providers, and the emotional and spiritual needs of those nearing the end of life.
We’re proud to share that our Executive Director, Jillian Olmsted, contributed her lived expertise and insights to the creation of this national resource. Her experience leading The INN Between—Utah’s only hospice and medical respite facility for people experiencing homelessness—helped shape best practices now available to guide and inspire similar efforts across the country.
“The limited availability of adequate end-of-life care facilities is a growing problem for the general population, and there is even more concern about the lack of resources available for people experiencing homelessness.” – NHCHC
Explore the guide and learn how you can bring dignity, comfort, and compassionate care to some of the most vulnerable members of your community.
End-of-Life Care in a Medical Respite
NHCHC Medical Respite Resource Library
Status of State-Level Medicaid Benefits for Medical Respite Care
Homelessness in Utah
As part of a HUD requirement, a Point in Time Count is done each January to count the number of homeless individuals in our community. The following results indicate that homelessness is not decreasing:
2016: 2,807
2017: 2,865
2018: 2,876
2019: 2,798
2020: 3,131
2021: 3,565
2022: 3,556
2023: 3,687
2024: 3,869
2025: 4,584 *The number of Utahns over age 64 experiencing homelessness rose from 251 to 356, an increase of 42%.
2026: Coming Soon
Our Outcomes
The INN Between opened in August 2015. Our outcomes through January 2025 are
1,00+ clients served
184 clients have experienced the end of life with dignity
28 clients who were on the brink of death rebounded and went on successfully transition to community based housing and employment
25% of recuperative care residents in FY24 have exited our program into stable housing, preventing a return to homelessness
Agency Awards and Recognitions
2025 The INN Between is recognized as a Certified Medical Respite Facility by the NHCHC
2025 Utah One Kind Act a Day, One of a Kind Award
2023 Utah Nonprofits Associaion, UNA Credential Award
2018, Utah Housing Matters, Agency of the Year Award
2016, Salt Lake City Human Rights Commission Award
2016, Society for Social Work Leadership in Healthcare, Agency Award
2016, Utah Housing Coalition, Agency of the Year Award
2015-16, Utah Chapter Award for Excellence in Social Work Leadership, Agency of the Year Award
Who We Serve
Homeless adults who:
are terminally ill,
are too ill to be on the streets, but not ill enough to be in the hospital,
require stable housing in order to initiate cancer treatment or other intensive medical treatments,
require stabilization before they can undergo life-saving surgery,
need to recuperate post-surgery,
require assistance with activities of daily living (dressing, eating, bathing, toileting, taking medications, etc.),
are dependent on insulin, oxygen or dialysis.
Who We Do Not serve
Our goal is to give every human the opportunity to experience the end of life with dignity; however, we lack the resources to serve individuals who:
are under the age of 18,
have advanced Alzheimer’s Disease or other forms of dementia,
required skilled nursing level of care
Admission Process
Most of our referrals come from hospitals (namely University of Utah and Huntsman Cancer Institute and Intermountain Medical), Volunteers of America’s Street Outreach Team, Fourth Street Clinic, The Road Home's Resource Centers/Shelters, compassionate releases from Utah State Prison, and the Salt Lake City Police Department’s Community Connection Center. In rare instances, an individual will self-refer; however, in all cases, we require a referral from a medical provider and a history and physical to assess the client’s appropriateness for our program.
Volunteerism
Volunteers help in many ways, from regular weekly shifts to one-time projects.
In 2025, over 400 Volunteers gave over 4,000 hours of service.
Click here to learn more or to sign up .
When Was The INN Between Founded?
December 3, 2014 as a 501(c)(3) nonprofit corporation. The INN Between opened August 17, 2015.
Annual Operating Budget (to operate 80 beds)
$2,623,950
Government Grants-36%
Direct Public Support-35%
Program Related Income-25%
Fundraising Events 3%
Other - 1%
Safety and Security Measures
24-hour video surveillance and monitoring
24/7/365 staffing with live-in Resident Advocates/Lived Experience Experts, 24/7 CNAs
10:00 pm bed checks
Secured building access
All visitors must sign in and only visit during recommended visiting hours
Other Frequently Asked Questions
How many residents live at The INN Between? We currently have 80 beds
Number of Staff? 28 FTE on our payroll. Staff is present 24/7/365
What is the daily cost per bed to operate The INN Between? $98
Has crime risen in the neighborhood since The INN Between arrived? According to Salt Lake City Police Detective David King, crime was tranding down in the neighborhood since The INN Between purchased its building.
Are there medical staff at The INN Between? In compliance with State Department of Health regulations, The INN Between employs a full-time Director of Nursing, a Registered Dietitian, Medical Respite Care Coordinators, and Certified Nurse Aides.
Does The INN Between drug test its clients? Yes, The INN Between is a sober-living drug-free facility
Does The INN Between do background checks of its clients? Our admissions staff thoroughly review residents before admission. Certain backgrounds may disqualify someone from staying at The INN Between, but our philosophy is to “wipe the slate clean” to give every human an opportunity to die safely housed with access to hospice care
Did The INN Between reduce my property values? A Home Sales Per Quarter Report from Tyler Parrish at Windermere Real Estate showed that within a two-block area around The INN Between, home sale prices were trending upward after The INN Between purchased its building.
Who do I contact if I have a concern? Please contact Executive Director & CEO Jillian Olmsted by This email address is being protected from spambots. You need JavaScript enabled to view it. or 801-456-4567
This link leads to the machine readable files that are made available in response to the federal Transparency in Coverage Rule and includes negotiated service rates and out-of-network allowed amounts between health plans and healthcare providers. The machine-readable files are formatted to allow researchers, regulators, and application developers to more easily access and analyze data. https://selecthealth.org/machine-readable-data
&copy; 2026 The INN Between
1216 E 1300 S • Salt Lake City, Utah 84105
Phone: 801-410-8314 Fax: 385-474-4066
TTY/TDD: Call 711 for Utah Relay Service
The INN Between is a 501(c)(3) nonprofit.
Federal Tax ID 47-2329595
CFC# 88565
This institution is an equal opportunity provider.
Privacy Policy
Get Our Newsletter
First Name *
Last Name *
Email Address *
Phone Number *
Submit
First Name
Facebook Instagram YouTube
Site by Third Sun
I want to...
About
Mission and Services
Staff and Board
Supporters
Frequently Asked Questions
Bid Requests
Job Opportunities
Media Coverage
Annual Reports
DEI Commitment
Obituaries
Stories
Events
10 Years
Donate
Start a Referral
Donate
Volunteer
Fulfill our Wishlist
Shop for a Cause
&times;
&times;
CELEBRATING 11 YEARS
make twice the difference for someone in need of a safe place to heal or experience the end of life with dignity.
In honor of our 11th anniversary, donations will be matched dollar for dollar, up to $25,000, in memory of the Reverend Canon Steve Andersen.
GIVE TODAY
