RQM+ | The MedTech CRO | Regulatory Consulting
Skip to content
Search
Partner with Us
Match with a Contractor
Order an Audit
Expertise
Medical Devices
In Vitro Diagnostics
Software-Enabled Products
Combination Products
Companion Diagnostics (CDx)
Emerging MedTech & Startups
Solutions
Regulatory & Quality
Clinical Trials
Lab & Material Science
Reimbursement​
The MedTech CRO
Resources
About Us
Leadership
Events, LinkedIn, News
Careers
Media Inquiries
Careers
Partner with Us
Expertise
Medical Devices
In Vitro Diagnostics
Software-Enabled Products
Combination Products
Companion Diagnostics (CDx)
Emerging MedTech & Startups
Solutions
Regulatory & Quality
Clinical Trials
Lab & Material Science
Reimbursement​
The MedTech CRO
Resources
About Us
Leadership
Events, LinkedIn, News
Careers
Media Inquiries
Careers
Partner with Us
Match with a Contractor
Order an Audit
Close Menu
We Don’t Make MedTech
We Make MedTech Happen
RQM+ is The MedTech CRO – a full-service partner adding expertise from concept to post-market.
We don’t build medical devices.
We make them market-ready.
We don’t invent life-changing diagnostics.
We make sure they meet global standards.
We don’t create combination products.
We make them accessible to patients.
As The MedTech CRO, RQM+ makes MedTech happen by accelerating innovation from concept to patient impact. Our tailored solutions throughout the product life cycle deliver regulatory and quality expertise, FDA-recognized laboratory services, clinical trials, and reimbursement strategies across device types and therapeutic areas to bring life-changing technologies to patients — faster, safer, better.
MedTech Solutions for Every Stage of Your Product’s Life Cycle
We provide tailored expertise across four core service and diverse therapeutic areas to advance your MedTech product from concept to market.
Regulatory & Quality
We guide you through regulatory challenges with unmatched expertise and tools that simplify compliance.
Continue to Regulatory and Quality
Clinical Trials
We manage every detail of your clinical trials to keep them efficient, safe, and compliant.
Continue to Clinical Trials
Lab & Material Science
Our lab services via Jordi Labs provide reliable testing and expert guidance to meet the highest standards.
Continue to Lab & Material Science
Reimbursement
We create reimbursement strategies that help your product succeed in the market.
Continue to Reimbursement
Why RQM+
Guiding your MedTech journey with faster solutions, fewer obstacles, and complete support from start to finish.
Faster Time to Market
Reduce regulatory delays with precise, experienced guidance.
Lower Risk
Identify and resolve challenges before they escalate.
Comprehensive Support
From concept to post-market, we ensure every step is seamless.
Flexible Partnering Solutions
Outsourcing
Customizable and scalable outsourcing scoped for entire projects, specific functions, or defined parts of a function. Leverage RQM+ expertise and flexibility while your teams stay focused on core competencies, corporate goals, and innovation. Partner with us.
Consulting
Targeted, outcome-focused expertise to solve defined MedTech challenges. RQM+
consultants step in with practical, actionable guidance and hands-on execution to drive timely resolution. Partner with us.
Staff Augmentation
Fill skill or capacity gaps with MedTech talent from RQM+. We provide on-demand
professionals, functional service support, fast deployment for tight timelines, and
contract-to-hire options that integrate seamlessly with your team. Match with a contractor.
Delivering Real Results
Real results that demonstrate our expertise and commitment to your MedTech success:
40 + Years
of Expertise
Delivering regulatory and quality (RA/QA) consulting excellence.
19 of the Top 20 Medical
Device Companies
Trusted by industry leaders worldwide.
7 of the Top 10 IVD
Companies
Chosen by innovators for their most critical projects.
50 % Efficiency
Gain
Achieved through our proprietary technology platforms.
Gold Standard Lab & Material Science Through Jordi Labs
Industry-leading materials testing and chemical characterization recognized by the FDA.
Global
Reach
Successful regulatory submissions across the U.S., Europe, and the U.K.
Make Your MedTech Happen
Hear From Our Clients
Trusted by industry leaders to simplify the complex and help bring life-changing innovations to market.
“Highly recommend. I have been working with RMQ+ for the past 3 years and am very thankful for all the help and indispensable knowledge the team has brought to my organization. RQM+ talented members have helped make complex projects easy to manage and enabled our submissions to be successful. I couldn’t ask for a better company to partner with.”
Regulatory Compliance Manager, Innovative MedTech Company
“I found the people who I’ve worked with from RQM+ to be professional, knowledgeable, and friendly. It was a pleasure to work with your team! I would recommend RQM+ to a colleague without any hesitation. I would look forward to working with RQM+ on other projects in the future. Your team would be my first choice when looking for external support, should the need arise.”
Director of Quality Systems and Regulatory Affairs, Global Medical Device Manufacturer
“Very happy with ongoing support and always quick, proactive response to need for help. Very happy with expertise and guidance provided by RQM+.”
Senior Director, Innovative MedTech Company
“RQM+ provided great team work with me during the external support, the communication is good and response is fast.”
Clinical Product Manager, Global Medical Device Manufacturer
“RQM+ have been incredibly professional, knowledgeable, efficient and patient throughout our SOW. I would not hesitate to recommend your services again.”
Post Market Surveillance Manager, Innovative MedTech Company
“Our regulatory affairs manager was a great support, offered great collaboration, and I appreciated his input into this project.”
Regulatory Affairs Manager, Innovative MedTech Company
“RQM+ offered incredible support throughout the project, and the engineer recommended was extremely well-trained and provided a ton of value to the project!”
Sr. Manager Supplier Quality Engineering, Innovative MedTech Company
“I have recommended RQM+ to others and will continue to do so, and RQM+ will be the first place I turn if the need for external support arises. I depend on the support I receive from RQM+ and I trust the guidance provided to me by their expert staff.”
RA Lead, Innovative MedTech Company
“I appreciate the support provided by RQM+ and the dedication to our projects, as well as kind and efficient communication and RQM+ availability whenever there is such a need. Thank you!”
Medical Director, Innovative MedTech Company
“Absolutely a 10 for our clinical research lead. My organization is stronger thanks to her support and expertise.”
Director, Clinical Research & Scientific Affairs, Innovative MedTech Company
“Our regulatory specialist is a great support, with great collaboration and discussion. I appreciate his input into our projects.”
Regulatory Affairs Manager, Innovative MedTech Company
“Our regulatory specialist and entire RQM+ team have been very pleasant to work with and are very knowledgeable and have provided great support with our clinical documentation for EU MDR.”
Regulatory Affairs Specialist, Innovative MedTech Company
“Our design quality expert has provided excellent support. His knowledge of medical devices and regulations is very good and he takes on difficult tasks with little guidance needed.”
Sr Manager, Design Quality Assurance, Innovative MedTech Company
“As always, it is a pleasure to work with the RQM+ team. They have very knowledgeable and professional; I greatly appreciate your support!”
VP of Quality, Global Medical Device Manufacturer
“Our project lead’s team continues to provide great support for our PMS documents, they are very well organized and on track for all deliverables related to this project.”
PMS Specialist, Innovative MedTech Company
“An absolute 10. RQM+ has provided invaluable support that has made a huge impact to our team and bottom line.”
PMS Specialist, Innovative MedTech Company
The Latest From RQM+
Resources
Article When Regulatory Strategy Becomes a Commercial Advantage
June 24, 2026
RQM+ Live! AI in Medical Devices: Practical Adoption for Medical Device Regulatory Teams
June 19, 2026
Case Studies Case Study: Rescuing a Stalled IDE Submission via Advanced Chemical Characterization
June 10, 2026
Your ideas make an impact.
Our expertise brings them to life.
Choose RQM+ as your partner and let’s make MedTech happen together.
Contact Us Today
United States HQ
5000 Centregreen Way
Suite 100
Cary, NC 27513
United States (U.S.)
Europe HQ
3rd Floor, 1 Ashley Road
Altrincham, Cheshire,
WA14 2DT
United Kingdom (UK)
Subscribe to RQM+ Updates
&copy; 2026 RQM+ All Rights Reserved
Privacy Notice
Cookies Policy
Careers
Blog
Close
