Hope Squad | Mission & History
Are you or someone you know in crisis? Call or text 988 for help now.
Program
Hope in the Hallways
Learn more about the difference Hope Squad makes!
Program
Hope Squad Program >
Community Stories >
My Ascension >
Research >
FAQ >
Get Involved
Start a Hope Squad
Share hope, change culture, and reduce the risk of suicide with Hope Squad.
Get Involved
Celebrate Hope Week >
Start a Hope Squad >
Partner with Hope Squad >
Advocate for Hope Squad >
About Us
Meet the Team
Learn more about the people behind Hope Squad.
About Us
Mission & History >
Partners >
Meet the Team >
Resources
Helpful Organizations & Resources
Explore links to organizations and resources that share our mission to support mental health and prevent suicide.
Resources
Store >
Helpful Organizations & Resources >
Careers >
Link Link 2 Link 3
Sign in Get started
Are you or someone you know in crisis? Call or text 988 for help now.
Program
Hope Squad Program > Community Stories > MyAscension > Research > FAQ >
Get Involved
Celebrate Hope Week > Start a Hope Squad > Partner with Hope Squad > Advocate for Hope Squad >
About Us
Mission & History > Partners > Meet the Team >
Resources
Store > Helpful Organizations & Resources >
Get started Sign in
Mission & History
Our Purpose
To foster human connection, community, and hope.
Our Approach
Elevating mental wellbeing through peer-to-peer suicide prevention programming.
Core Values
Lead with Vulnerability
We are curious about each other and build trust through humility, transparency, and integrity.
Embody a Growth Mindset
We accept new challenges, embrace failure, and share what we've learned.
Lift Where We Stand
We prioritize the team's success and step outside of our comfort zones to solve problems.
While it takes a village to raise a child, we believe it takes an entire community to save one.
Dr. Greg Hudnall
Founder of Hope Squad
Our Story
Provo Beginnings
For over twelve years, Provo City School District, the tenth largest in Utah, grappled with a silent tragedy: the district experienced one to two youth suicides annually. This somber reality included the heartbreaking loss of a fourth grader who died by suicide on school grounds.
In 1997, Dr. Gregory A. Hudnall, a high school principal, was contacted by Provo Police to identify a student who had died by suicide in a local park. After collaborating with law enforcement, Dr. Hudnall, overwhelmed with grief, made a solemn vow in his car: He would do everything within his power to prevent another student from succumbing to suicide.
Utah County Hope Task Force
The following year, Dr. Hudnall moved into a leadership role within Provo City School District, overseeing 16,000 students in a 120,000-resident community. A task force, involving civic leaders, mental health agencies, community organizations, and schools, spent five years on QPR certification, crisis team establishment, and suicide prevention education.
Though the numbers were reduced, youth suicides persisted. A pivotal moment in Dr. Hudnall’s approach to suicide prevention occurred after the suicide of a student who had given a watch to his best friend and said his “family would be better off without him.” Though the student exhibited warning signs of suicide to multiple peers, no one had told an adult. Following this tragic loss, Dr. Hudnall realized the potential of harnessing peer support in suicide prevention.
The First Hope Squad
Dr. Hudnall and his team began at Timpview High; with 2,100 students, the school experienced more threats, attempts, and suicides than any other school in the district over a decade. Believing success there could translate to success elsewhere, they surveyed students to identify peers who were kind and approachable. The top forty became the first Hope Squad members who were trained to identify suicide warning signs in peers and to refer those peers to adults.
Following a successful first year at Timpview, Dr. Hudnall expanded Hope Squads to every school in the district, changing the approach to suicide prevention to empower peers as part of the process.
The result: Zero suicides in the Provo City School District for nine years after implementation.
Program Reach
Hope Squads are now in thousands of schools across the United States and Canada. Over 98% of administrators whose schools have implemented Hope Squad agree that the programming promotes a positive school climate for their students. As Hope Squad grows, we continue to share hope and save lives.
5455 N. River Run Dr., Provo UT 84604
(801) 342-3444
Support@HopeSquad.com
Get Involved
Program Start a Hope Squad Partner with Us Advocate for Us Contact Us
About Us
Mission & Story Meet the Team Partners FAQ
Resources
Helpful Organizations Research Shop
Terms & Conditions /
Privacy Notice /
SMS Privacy Policy
