Utah Office of Regulatory Relief - Governor's Office of Economic Development
Home
Utah Office of Regulatory Relief
Utah Office of Regulatory Relief
The Office of Regulatory Relief administers a general regulatory sandbox created by the Utah Legislature in 2021. The sandbox allows businesses to experiment with products, production methods, or services that would normally not fit within the state’s regulatory environment for one year.
This allows entrepreneurs to determine if customers value these products and ideas by testing the concept in the market, while also gathering data and insight that can help inform regulatory change at a later time. The sandbox is also useful to test constituent regulatory reform proposals that would be either difficult or impractical to implement at the state level.
To participate in the sandbox, companies must complete an Application Questionnaire and Demonstration Proposal document .
Applicants are strongly encouraged to complete the below application form and set up a consultation with the regulatory relief team, or contact the team at [email protected] with questions.
Loading…
Using its one-stop-shop model, Homie Title has saved customers over $13 million since its admission to the regulatory sandbox.
“The state of Utah was the first U.S. state to launch a general, industry-agnostic regulatory sandbox.”
- Mercatus Center at George Mason University
Two municipalities in northern Utah have used the TowPro application to successfully execute over 650 emergency, non-consent tows.
Suggestion Box
Another way Utah residents and organizations can participate is through the suggestion box.
By sharing insights and ideas, residents and organizations can influence positive change, share their diverse opinions, and contribute to a more efficient and supportive regulatory environment for all.
Once a suggestion is submitted, the office will evaluate it and provide analysis and recommendations on which state laws and regulations could be modified, eliminated, or reduced.
Under Statute 63N-16-301 3(b) , the OOR "shall ensure that private information of residents and businesses that make suggestions on the web page is not made public."
If you have any questions or concerns regarding filling out the questions for this suggestion box form, please contact [email protected] .
Submit a Suggestion
Sandbox Participants and Current Applicants
The regulatory relief office updates the lists of approved and pending sandbox applications, as well as previous sandbox participants, on a regular basis.
▸ Authorized Entities Alchemy Medical Aesthetics, LLC
Regulation : 58-1-505(1b), Section 58-1-507, 58-1-506(2), 58-1-506(3), 58-67-805, and 58-68-805
Industry: Healthcare
Approval Reasoning : The office approved the application due to the applicant's extensive experience with the specific equipment and the favorable recommendation from the advisory committee. Additionally, another significant factor in the decision was the financial burden that would arise from requiring physician supervision for the use of equipment. Hiring a doctor who lacks the necessary knowledge or expertise in this area would impose unnecessary costs on the PAs, contradicting the intention of supporting efficient practice.
Draper Dermatology
Regulation: 58-1-505(1b), Section 58-1-507, 58-1-506(2), 58-1-506(3), 58-67-805, and 58-68-805
Industry: Healthcare
Approval Reasoning : The office approved the application due to the applicant's extensive experience with the specific equipment and the favorable recommendation from the advisory committee. Additionally, another significant factor in the decision was the financial burden that would arise from requiring physician supervision for the use of equipment. Hiring a doctor who lacks the necessary knowledge or expertise in this area would impose unnecessary costs on the PAs, contradicting the intention of supporting efficient practice.
▸ Pending Applications
▸ Previous Participants
Company
Regulation
Industry
Approval Reasoning
Homie Title
Utah Code § 31A-23a-1003(1)(b)
Title Insurance
TowPro
Utah Code § 72-9-603(16)
Utah Code § 72-9-604
Towing
TowPro is a mobile app that modernizes public safety towing dispatch. Using similar technology to ride-sharing apps, TowPro applied this technology to the towing industry to automate the dispatch process and provide real-time situational awareness for dispatchers, officers in the field, and towing companies. In its application, TowPro proved its product’s positive impact for consumers and the general public by citing peer-reviewed research and referring to outcomes from its beta testing. After giving the Utah Department of Transportation an opportunity to review TowPro’s application and make a recommendation, the General Regulatory Sandbox Advisory Committee likewise reviewed and deliberated over this application. With a passing vote of 8-1, TowPro’s application was approved, and the participant entered into a contract with the regulatory relief office.
For more information about the deliberation over this application and how a decision was reached, please refer to the June 16, 2022, public meeting minutes and audio recording found on the Utah Public Notice Website .
Consumer Complaints and Feedback
The Utah Office of Regulatory Relief monitors entities providing an offering through the regulatory sandbox to ensure that no public harm is occurring. Formal feedback and complaints are used to monitor those entities and their services. To file a complaint or provide feedback, email [email protected] with “Complaint” in the subject line. While we accept feedback and complaints, individual assistance cannot be provided to consumers seeking a resolution.
The Office of Regulatory Relief also invites residents and businesses to make suggestions regarding laws and regulations that could be modified or eliminated to reduce the regulatory burden born by Utah residents and businesses. For suggestions, please email [email protected] .
Advisory Committee
The General Regulatory Sandbox program has an advisory committee that advises and recommends to the Office of Regulatory Relief on whether an applicant should be admitted as a sandbox participant.
View Members
Noncustodial Blockchain Registry
During the 2023 legislative session, Utah passed House Bill 289 to create Utah Code &sect;63N-16 Part 4 and, thereby, the state’s Noncustodial Blockchain Registry within the Office of Regulatory Relief. Based on the recommendation of the Blockchain and Digital Innovation Task Force, noncustodial blockchain companies can apply to be added to the registry and receive a certificate of registry from GOED.
The Noncustodial Blockchain Registry consists of business names and their authorized agents in the state, if any.
Learn More
Frequently Asked Questions
▸ How do I apply for the regulatory sandbox?
Set a consultation with the regulatory relief team using the form embedded in this page. This is the best way to form a successful application.
Work with them on refining the idea and managing the process
Download and complete the application
Fill out the Application Questionnaire and Demonstration Proposal document
Submit your application by email
Once your documents are complete, email them to [email protected]
Wait for confirmation
You will receive an acknowledgment email from the Regulatory Relief Office confirming that your application has been received
Respond to follow-up requests
If additional information is needed, the Regulatory Relief Office will contact you with specific requests
▸ What happens after I submit my application? Upon receipt of an application, the regulatory relief office will:
Review the application for completeness
Request additional information if necessary
Send the application to applicable government agencies (within five business days after receipt of a completed application)
Send acknowledgment of application receipt with the contact information of each regulatory agency referred for review
If the regulatory relief office either 1) receives a recommendation from regulatory agencies to accept the applicant or 2) does not receive a written report and recommendation within 30 days (with a possible five-day extension):
An advisory committee will review and recommend the application be either approved or denied
The regulatory relief office will review agency and advisory committee recommendations and decide to approve or deny
Approved applicants will enter into a contract with the office
▸ How long does the application and review process take? The process can take several months, from consultation to application submission to entering into a contract with the regulatory relief office.
▸ Will the regulatory relief office grant a waiver of an entire section of code? While the statute does not forbid the regulatory relief office from waiving an entire chapter or part of the code (e.g., Utah Code §63N-16 or Utah Code §63N-16-201), applicants that are able to narrow requests to specific subsections in the code (e.g. Utah Code §63N-16-201(9) or Utah Code §63N-16-201(9)(e)) are more likely to receive a favorable recommendation from the regulating agency.
▸ Can my business operate outside of Utah? Yes, however, per Utah Code §63N-16-202(2)(a), applicants who provide a product or service to consumers both in and outside of Utah must be able to demonstrate that a waiver through the regulatory sandbox will only apply to products and services available in Utah.
▸ After admittance and completion of the 12-month demonstration period, what comes next? At least 30 days before the end of the 12-month demonstration period, the participant must notify the office of its intent to conclude the demonstration and exit the sandbox program or seek an extension of up to 12 months. Within 30 days after exiting the sandbox, a participant must submit a written report to the regulatory relief office and each applicable agency. The report will describe an overview of the sandbox participant's demonstration, any incidents of harm to consumers, legal actions filed against the participant as a result of the demonstration, and complaints filed with an applicable agency regarding the demonstration.
▸ What type of record-keeping and reporting will be required for a regulatory sandbox participant? According to Utah Code §63N-16-206, sandbox participants are to retain records, documents, and data, including consumer complaints, incidents of harm, or legal actions filed against the participant. Sandbox participants must report quarterly to the regulatory relief office, and the office can request records, documents, and data as needed.
▸ Does being convicted or under investigation of a crime preclude me from participating in the sandbox? According to Utah Code §63N-16-201(16), regulatory sandbox applicants that have been convicted, entered a plea of nolo contendere, or held in abeyance, for any crime involving significant theft, fraud, or dishonesty associated with the ability of the applicant or other participant to safely and competently participate in the program, shall be denied. Applicants currently under investigation for a crime of a similar nature will be considered case-by-case.
For additional questions or to schedule a consultation regarding the regulatory sandbox program, please contact the Utah Office of Regulatory Relief at [email protected] .
Sandbox News and Research
News
60 East South Temple
Suite 300
Salt Lake City, Utah
84111-1041
Phone: (801) 538-8680
Email: [email protected]
Navigation Menu
Home
About
Accolades & Rankings
Boards
Community Data Profiles
Grants & Funding
Events
One Utah Summit
Featured Development Opportunities
In Utah
100 Companies Championing Women
Publications
Statewide Economic Development Contacts
Targeted Industries
Utah Elevated
Why Utah?
Workforce Services
Programs & Services
APEX Accelerator
Business Recruitment & Expansion
Center for International Business & Diplomacy
Center for Rural Development
Community Initiatives
Housing & Community Development
Opportunity Zones
Startup State Initiative
UPSTART
Utah Center for Global Talent
Utah Film Commission
Utah Office of Regulatory Relief
Utah Office of Tourism
Utah Small Business Credit Initiative
News
Contact
Newsletters
Social Media
Team
GOED Employee Hub
Email Newsletter
Sign up for our email newsletter to learn more about our office.
Subscribe
Translate »
