ADA Compliant: 2/3/2023
School SafeUT Model Policy | 1

School SafeUT Model Policy

Introduction
The following is an example of a SafeUT policy that schools can use to model their own
policies when implementing procedures for choosing SafeUT Designated Contacts and
completing the SafeUT Contact Priority List. This model also contains liability protections of
those selected as SafeUT Designated Contacts. The impact of SafeUT can be found in each
year’s SafeUT Annual Report, found here.

[Name of School] SafeUT Policy

I. Purpose and Philosophy
The SafeUT application operates twenty-four hours a day, seven days a week and serves
students, educators, and parents/guardians of Utah schools. It allows individuals in crisis to
connect instantly with a masters-level mental health counselor through chat or a phone call. A
user can also submit a confidential tip through the SafeUT application if they are concerned
about another individual or a possible threat to their school. The goal of SafeUT is to provide
school personnel with time-sensitive information to keep schools and their communities safe.
The SafeUT program is funded by the Utah State Legislature, and the services are provided by
the Huntsman Mental Health Institute (HMHI) at the University of Utah.

When a school chooses to enroll in SafeUT, they are required to provide contact information for
at least three school personnel, known as SafeUT Designated Contacts. These individuals
receive all tips submitted to their school through SafeUT. A SafeUT mental health counselor
may also call a SafeUT Designated Contact if a school’s student is at imminent risk of inflicting
harm to self or others upon the completion of a clinical assessment. These phone calls may be
made either during or after school hours. When a school has enrolled in SafeUT, the name of
the school becomes visible in the “Select Your School” list that users see upon initial download
of the application and when selecting a school to report a confidential tip.

II. Definitions
A. SafeUT means the crisis line established in Section 53B-17-1202.
B. SafeUT Mental Health Counselor, referred to herein as “SafeUT Counselor,” means
masters-level mental health counselor employed by HMHI at the University of Utah who
receives all SafeUT chats and tips.
C. SafeUT Designated Contact, referred to herein as “Designated Contact,” means school
personnel chosen by the school to be listed in the school’s SafeUT profile.

USBE-SafeUT SSS Model Policies (2022)

School SafeUT Model Policy | 2

1. This individual will be forwarded all tips submitted to the school and will follow
school-outlined response protocols.
2. They may also be contacted by a SafeUT Counselor if it is determined that a
student is at imminent risk of harm to self or others upon completion of a clinical
assessment.
3. Designated Contacts are granted access to the SafeUT Admin Portal where they
are expected to complete a module of training videos.
D. Priority Contact List refers to the prioritized list of Designated Contacts in [Name of
School]’s SafeUT profile.
1. SafeUT Counselors will use this list to reach Designated Contacts if a student is at
imminent risk.
2. At least one Designated Contact on the Priority Contact List must always be
reachable by SafeUT Counselors.
E. SafeUT Admin Portal, referred to herein as “Portal,” is the portal Designated Contacts
use to view tips, training videos, and possibly edit users and create blackout dates.
1. The Portal can be accessed via this link.
F. UCA means Utah Code Annotated.
G. USC means United States Code.

III. Procedures
A. [Name of School] shall provide SafeUT with current information for at least three
Designated Contacts (see Appendix A).
1. Designated Contacts shall be updated for accuracy as changes occur and
reviewed annually by either [Name of LEA] personnel or [Name of School]
personnel.
2. These individuals may include:
i. Principal/Director
ii. Other Administrative personnel
iii. School-Based Mental Health Professional(s)
iv. School Resource Officer (SRO)
v. School professional(s) who is/are most responsive to crisis situations at
any given time
vi. LEA-level Administrative personnel for follow-up
B. Upon identifying Designated Contacts, [Name of School] shall have a procedure to
create the Priority Contact List using the Portal.
1. This procedure will ensure at least one Designated Contact can be reached by a
SafeUT Counselor if a student is at imminent risk of harm to self or others.

USBE-SafeUT SSS Model Policies (2022)

School SafeUT Model Policy | 3

2. It is recommended Designated Contacts coordinate planned time off or schedule
limitations.
3. Designated Contacts with administrative privileges may set and update the
priority of the Priority Contact List at any time using the Portal.
4. The Priority Contact List shall be updated for accuracy as changes occur and
reviewed annually by either [Name of LEA] personnel or [Name of School]
personnel.

IV. Relevant Statutes for Designated Contacts
Designated Contacts are expected to fully understand and abide by the following statutes.
A. These laws mandate certain reports:
1. UCA 62A-4a-403: Mandatory child abuse reporting statute. Suspected child
abuse or neglect must be reported to the Division of Child and Family Services
(DCFS) or another law enforcement agency.
2. UCA 53E-9-203(6)(b)(i): Mandate for teachers to report imminent threats to
parents.
3. UCA 53G-9-604(a): School officials must notify parents of bullying and suicide
threats.
B. These laws permit information reporting in certain situations:
1. UCA 53G-9-203(2)(a): Permits school official to provide certain information and
observations to parents.
2. 20 USC 1232g and UCA 53E-9-308: Data disclosure of sensitive information
collected under this model policy may be shared in accordance with the Family
Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA).
C. These laws limit liability in certain situations:
1. UCA 78B-4-501: Good Samaritan Law (a person who renders aid in an emergency
cannot be held liable unless that person is grossly negligent).

USBE-SafeUT SSS Model Policies (2022)

School SafeUT Model Policy | 4

Appendix: A

School Information Needed for SafeUT Enrollment

Name of School Name of Local Education
Agency (LEA)
School Address School Phone Number

Name of Priority Contact 1
(Emergency Contact)
(LEA Lead Role)

Title Email Address Cell Phone Number

Name of Priority Contact 2
(Emergency Contact)
Title Email Address Cell Phone Number

Name of Priority Contact 3
(Emergency Contact)
Title Email Address Cell Phone Number

Current Student
Enrollment
Preferred SafeUT
Enrollment Date
Preferred Note to Include to Counselors
(optional)
