SafeUT Frontline - 24/7 Support for First Responders
Skip to main content
Main navigation
Students
Parents
Schools
FAQ
Resources
Main navigation
Annual Report
Data Dashboard
Marketing and Outreach Requests
Menu
SafeUT Frontline
SafeUT Frontline aids those who work in health care, fire/EMS, law enforcement, corrections, public safety dispatch, and their families, linking them to licensed mental health professionals—who are trained to understand their unique challenges—for confidential support.
A Lifeline for the Frontline
Your browser does not support HTML5 video.
SafeUT Frontline: FAQs Answered
How it works
Download the Free App
SafeUT Frontline is available for both Apple and Android devices. Simply search "SafeUT Frontline" in your smartphone's app store and download the app.
Chat or Call
Just like you can’t predict emergencies, you can’t predict when you or a loved one needs support. The SafeUT Frontline app provides a safe line to privately talk to someone who is an expert in crisis intervention. SafeUT Frontline counselors confidentially listen to your concerns for free and are available 24/7, 365 days a year.
SafeUT Frontline does not include the tip feature that is available on the SafeUT app.
Get Free, Private Professional Support
SafeUT Frontline counselors are licensed with master’s degrees in mental health and employed by the Huntsman Mental Health Institute at University of Utah Health. They’re trained to understand the daily challenges faced by those who work in health care, fire/EMS, law enforcement, corrections, public safety dispatch, and their families.
SafeUT Frontline is ready to confidentially support you 24/7, every day of the year, and can connect you to other resources that may assist you in your situation.
While SafeUT Frontline counselors are here to help with any worries or stress you might have, those who work in health care, fire/EMS, law enforcement, corrections, public safety dispatch, and their families often reach out to us about feeling overwhelmed, post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD), post-traumatic stress injury (PTSI), thoughts of self-harm, thoughts of suicide, or concerns about someone hurting themselves.
Hear what Frontline workers are saying about SafeUT Frontline
"I think a lot of us don't really feel like we're in a crisis. There are just these fleeting moments of, 'I can't handle this anymore.' That's what I like about this app—it's meant to be for that moment, that immediate moment."
- Crystal Armstrong, MD
Your browser does not support HTML5 video.
SafeUT Frontline: A lifeline for the front line
Your browser does not support HTML5 video.
SafeUT Frontline: The weight of the badge
Your browser does not support HTML5 video.
SafeUT Frontline: Self-care is health care, too
Your browser does not support HTML5 video.
SafeUT Frontline: For those on the front, we've got your back
How SafeUT Aids Frontline Workers
Just like you can’t predict emergencies, you can’t predict when you or a loved one needs support. The SafeUT Frontline app provides a safe line to privately talk to someone who is an expert in emergency intervention, whether it's for yourself, a loved one, or a colleague. Here are real examples of things Frontline workers have chatted with SafeUT Frontline counselors about.
I’m struggling with a call I took a few weeks ago.
How do I process what I saw?
I’m feeling angry and frustrated, and I don’t want to feel this way.
I’m feeling really overwhelmed.
The stress I’m under is making my relationships feel strained.
I wanted to do this work to save lives, but I’m struggling with the need of perfectionism in my job.
I’m expected to act like everything’s fine, but I’m emotionally all over the place.
One of my patients died, and I can’t let it go.
I’ve struggled with depression and suicidal thoughts a lot recently.
Frequently Asked Questions
Why should I download the SafeUT Frontline app?
Just like you can’t predict emergencies, you can’t predict when you or a loved one needs support. The SafeUT Frontline app provides a safe line to privately talk to someone who is an expert in emergency intervention. SafeUT Frontline counselors confidentially listen to your concerns for free and are available 24/7, 365 days a year.
What can I expect when I use the chat or call feature?
SafeUT Frontline counselors are here to support you with any worries or stress you might have. They listen without judgment, connect you with helpful resources, and assist in creating a safety plan if necessary. They can also support you in helping a friend, family member, or colleague who is having a tough time.
To use the chat feature on the SafeUT Frontline app, click on “Start a Chat” or “Get Support for a Frontline Worker” on the main screen. A SafeUT Frontline counselor will get your message and quickly respond.
If you'd like to talk on the phone, press the “Start a Call” button on the SafeUT Frontline app. The SafeUT Frontline toll-free phone number will appear on your screen. Confirm that you want to make the call.
What do frontline workers talk to SafeUT Frontline counselors about?
SafeUT Frontline counselors are here to support you with any worries or stress you might have. Those who work on the frontline in health care, fire/EMS, law enforcement, corrections, public safety dispatch, and their families often reach out to us about feeling overwhelmed, post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD), post-traumatic stress injury (PTSI), thoughts of self-harm, thoughts of suicide, or concerns about someone hurting themselves.
Information you share in conversation on the SafeUT Frontline app is private and confidential.  Wanting to harm oneself or having thoughts of suicide often start as smaller feelings that build over time, such as feeling lonely, isolated, or a burden to people. No one should have to go through that alone. SafeUT Frontline counselors are available—for free 24/7, every day of the year—to offer support and prevent issues from getting worse.
How do SafeUT Frontline counselors know what I go through as a frontline worker or family member?
SafeUT Frontline counselors are trained to understand the daily challenges faced by those who work in health care, fire/EMS, law enforcement, corrections, public safety dispatch, and their families. They are ready to support you 24/7, every day of the year, and can connect you to other resources that may assist you in your situation.
Get the SafeUT App—so you've got support whenever you need it.
The SafeUT app is free, confidential, and gives you a line to licensed mental health counselors in Utah who are ready to help 24 hours a day, 365 days a year.
Download to your device.
Apple
Google
Site Links
About
Blog
Careers
Digital Accessibility
Privacy Policy
Helpful Links
SafeUT Frontline
SafeUT National Guard
801-587-8852
For General Inquiries:
801-587-8852
safeut@hsc.utah.edu
Copyright © 2026 University of Utah Health
Close
Service line menu
Students
Parents
Schools
FAQ
Resources
Annual Report
Data Dashboard
Marketing and outreach requests
Search
